Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, is at the moment in a joyous mood.
The reason for his palpable joy is not unconnected with the fact that the people of the state have again put their fate, politically, in his hands for the next four years. It is obvious that the confidence reposed in him is an indication that the lawyer-turned-politician has been faithful to his electoral promises to his people.
But unlike many politicians, he does not like to trumpet his achievements. Little wonder, his achievements as a governor have been underreported. But his supporters are always quick to say that his leadership and administrative acumen are steadily bringing the dividends of democracy to the people in ways that complement and even surpass the work of his predecessors.
Indeed, if his personal sacrifices to serve his people, in his first four years, are anything to go by, then, his is the kind of leadership that the broader spectrum of Nigerians should yearn for. In a nation where many of his contemporaries seek public offices primarily for the perks and luxuries that come with it, Akeredolu, otherwise known as Aketi, is said to have done quite the opposite. He is said to have been managing the little resources of the state for the sole purpose of developing it. According to his supporters, he lives a modest life, while using the state’s resources to focus on providing education, building roads, providing health care infrastructure, and improving rural and urban water supply.
Perhaps, this is one of the reasons the people of the state rewarded him with a second term in office.
Besides, political observers maintain that Akeredolu was able to defeat his closest rival, Eyitayo Jegede of the Peoples Democratic Party, in the last concluded governorship election, because he has been a grassroots man, who is not aloof from his people’s yearnings. Unlike Aketi, Jegede is alleged to be too elitist and also out of touch with the reality in the state.
It will be recalled that Jegede had previously contested against Akeredolu and lost in 2016, an indication that Akeredolu’s electoral victory was no fluke.