Deji Elumoye in Abuja The Pan Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere, has called on the Nigeria Police to fish out the killers of the Olufon of Ifon, Oba Israel Adeusi, who was murdered on Thursday.
The group also called on President Muhammadu Buhari to be alive to his responsibility by providing adequate security for the Nigerian citizens. National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, Yinka Odumakin, in a statement issued yesterday entitled ‘Olufon’s murder and total insecurity’, described the killing of the Olufon as one murder too many that needed to be investigated by the police. “We ask the police to fish out the killers of Olufon as it is one murder too many and absolute failure and lack of competence by the security system in Nigeria to secure lives and property which is the first duty of any responsible government.” Afenifere stated that it was yet to recover from the recent murder of many Yoruba citizens which the police had not unraveled when another killing took place. “This gruesome murder coming as we are still smarting from the brutal murder of the daughter of Afenifere Leader, Mrs. Funke Olakunrin for which some Fulani herdsmen are currently on trial. There have been other multiple murders across Yoruba land which the police have not been able to resolve. It has reached a point that only very prominent killings get reported in this state of total insecurity in a failed state. “We are fed up with the daily sucking of the blood of our people across Nigeria in the apparent festering of insecurity which now has a very conducive atmosphere in Nigeria,” Afenifere lamented. The group stressed that it was high time President Buhari provided adequate security for all and sundry saying, “To President Buhari it’s a time to get up and secure Nigeria and allow a federal architecture that promotes homeland security, being the Commandeer-In-Chief can’t be a title with no responsibility.” Afenifere also canvassed for decentralisation of the current single police system as well as putting in proper shape the infrastructural facilities which were currently in very bad shape.
“The total collapse of single policing to keep Nigeria safe is the urgent need to allow multi-level policing now. “The total collapse of infrastructure in Nigeria reflected in the report that the Oba was abducted by the killers as the vehicle had to slow down in a bad portion of the road. Why are we constructing road to Niger Republic when our own roads are literally death – traps?”, the group wondered.