By Hammed Shittu in Ilorin and Ibrahim Shuaibu No fewer than 11 persons have died while several others sustained various injuries in series of road accidents in Kwara and Kano States. The Kano State accident, which claimed seven lives, occurred at early hours of yesterday at Mundubawa junction on Hadejia Road in Kano metropolitan. Hadejia Road is one of the busiest roads in the metropolis, as the road links Kano city with some communities around Yankaba, Gunduwawa, Tishama among others. The accident occurred when a trailer with the registration number: XC954GWL, and a truck without a registration number, rammed against each other. Spokesman of the state fire service, Mr. Saidu Muhammad, confirmed to THISDAY in Kano yesterday, saying the victims were evacuated to the hospital. Muhammad explained that the doctor on duty at Sir Muhammad Sunusi General Hospital Kano confirmed seven people dead. The fire service spokesman also said the remaining victims are receiving treatment at the hospital. Similarly, a fatal auto crash has also claimed four lives in Offa, the headquarters of Offa Local Government Area of Kwara State. The auto crash, which happened around 10:27a.m. yesterday on Offa-Ojoku Road, involved one Toyota Camry car and a tricycle. It was gathered that the Toyota Camry car driven by an auto-mechanic rammed into the tricycle killing three of the occupants and a roadside female trader. Eyewitness account revealed that some students of the Federal Polytechnic Offa, who were also on the tricycle sustained injuries in the accident. It was also gathered that irate mob in the area burnt the Toyota Camry car. Confirming the incident, the state Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Jonathan Owoade, said the deceased had been deposited at the General Hospital in Offa. He added that the accident occurred around Awrab Hotel junction, saying the accident involved eight persons. Owoade said the other four injured persons were also receiving treatment at the same hospital. The FRSC boss said: “The Toyota Camry car was burnt by the mob (students), however, the situation is under control. Security agencies and our officers were on ground to restore normalcy.”