Issues bothering on promoting bankable investments portfolio for insurance and pension sectors will form the thrust of discussions at the 2020 edition of the annual conference of the National Association of Insurance and Pension Correspondents Association (NAIPCO). The conference, is scheduled for November 4th, 2020, in Lagos. According to a statement, experts as well as stakeholders in the financial service sector are expected to deliberate on how insurance and pension fund operators can build their investment portfolios to maximise profit. The theme for the conference is: “Promoting Bankable Investments Portfolio for Insurance and Pension Sectors.” The Chairman of the occasion would be the Chairman, Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), Mr. Austin Enajemo-Isire, while the Director General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Dr. Muda Yusuf, would deliver the keynote address. Also Chairman, Mutual Benefits Assurance Plc, Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi, would be the special guest and Chief Launcher of the new NAIPCO website. “The Commissioner for Insurance/CEO, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Mr. Sunday Thomas and the Director General, National Pension Commission (PenCom), Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, have confirmed their attendance at the conference. “Similarly, the Chairman, Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), Mr Ganiyu Musa; the CEO, Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria (PenOp), Mr. Agudah Oguche, among others, will be present at the occasion to deliberate on ways operators can invest in the businesses of the Organised Private Sector of Nigeria(OPSN) and still maximise profit,” the statement added. Speaking on the preparation for the event, the President, NAIPCO, Mr. Chuks Udo Okonta, said, as a critical stakeholder, “it is the desire of NAIPCO that companies in both the insurance and pension sectors build up investment portfolios that will translate to huge returns on investments for shareholders and contributors of the contributory pension scheme.”