For several months now Coronavirus has enveloped the world like a cocoon, and when you expect it to subside, cases of infected persons continue to increase. The coronavirus pandemic has revealed that most countries around the world have paid great attention to building a large weaponry, while paying scarce attention towards improving infrastructure for health care and the delivery of medical services. In a country where few people can afford quality medical care, alternative treatment of Coronavirus has boomed and is being exploited. In Lagos for instance, you often hear of ‘’omo alagbo’’ herbs seller; they hawk all sorts of herbs alleging it could cure all illnesses. There are hundreds of unproven treatments of COVID-19 out there.. The most baffling is that some politicians in different parts of the world are promoting them, whether out of genuine concern or a desire to offer hope and deflect responsibility, no one can say with certainty. But one thing we all know is that COVID-19 has become part of us and we all must self-protect ourselves. Mehmet Kasim Alageyik said his concoctions are at par with modern medicine. He said ‘’no disease or ailment can withstand his remedies,’’ and went on to claim that he has cured dozens of conditions from skin cancer to cerebral palsy.’’ An Ijebu man, from the Western part of Nigeria who lives in Lagos suburb, boasted that from ages chicken soup has been recommended as a natural cure for the common cold which has worked for him. ‘’ I have been taking pepper soup for six decades to drive severe cold, so coronavirus has no place in my body,’ he said.’ However, ‘’Capsicum, commonly known as pepper, has some antioxidant, antibacterial, anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties but there is no evidence that it can cure coronavirus,’’ according to a Lagos based pharmacist, Sinmisola Aloko. In every part of the world, core science has had to struggle for attention with pet theories, rumors and traditional beliefs during this pandemic. Some reports claim the use of turmeric, garlic, ginger, honey, vitamin-C could help in tackling COVID-19. Most of these claims have been met with a wall of skepticism especially from medical practitioners. The general public must stop the indiscriminate use of most of drugs as it might harm their bodies. Olusanya Anjorin, olusanyaanjorin@gmail.com