Segun James The Lagos State Signage and Advertising Agency (LASAA) yesterday faulted a former Deputy Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Bode George’s claim that it had surrendered its regulatory power to Loatsad Media Limited, a firm owned by Mr. Seyi Tinubu. LASAA, an outdoor advertising regulatory body, added that it “is still in charge of regulating outdoor advertising and signages in the state contrary to George’s spurious claim that Loatsad regulates and controls the erection of billboards and signages in Lagos.” LASAA’s Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Adedamola Docemo made this clarification in a statement he issued yesterday, faulting George’s allegation against the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu’s son. Docemo said there was no iota of truth in an interview George granted to Arise TV, which according to him, Loatsad Media now regulates and controls the erection of billboards and signages in Lagos. He said Loatsad Media Limited “is merely one of the companies that have subjected themselves to the rigorous process of registration with LASAA. Over 200 other practitioners too numerous to mention in the outdoor advertising space in the state have also registered. “This is available in our registry and on our website, www.lasaa.com,” he said. He stated that the current relationship with the Outdoor Advertising Agency of Nigeria (OAAN) is a testament to the fairness the agency has demonstrated in its regulatory functions. “Our relationship today with OAAN is a manifestation of our commitment to collaboration and professionalism in the last 14 years of our operations. We have indeed achieved so much in this regard,” the managing director said. He said since the company “is duly qualified to practise in the state, it would be unfair to deny it registration based on the personality of its owner.” He added that LASAA regulation “provides a level playing field for all players. It is therefore nothing more than wishful thinking, for any individual to insinuate that the agency has yielded its fiduciary responsibility to an advertising company that it regulates. “We believe in a liberal market economy where all players will compete for the benefit of the market,” LASAA’s managing director said in the statement. He said the agency “is a professional body with clear methods and processes. LASAA is not interested in politics. We do not play politics in our operations and processes. LASAA model of operation has become a model template for many states to adopt in their effort to achieve sanity in their states.” He said the outdoor advertising space and signages in Lagos “are still under the regulation and control of LASAA which is statutorily empowered by law to carry out such responsibilities. It has not transferred such to any other organisation.”