Oluchi Chibuzor
Phillips Consulting Limited (pcl) has urged organisations seeking to move into the new digital-first reality environment to first require an assessment to provide one simple, yet crucial perspective – provide bearings in a digital age. Speaking on the topic, ‘Gauging Digital Readiness through Digital Assessment,’ Associate Partner, Digital and Technology Consulting of pcl, Jason Ikegwu, was quoted in a statement to have explained that, “It is, therefore, essential to assess the optimisation potential in determining its digital readiness and maturity.” According to him, the two most important aspects of a digital readiness assessment are the evaluation of behavioural and cognitive competencies. An employee needs to have the ability and the will to learn and excel in the age of digital transformation. “Not only do employees need to be resilient to transforming technologies, but they also need to possess mental agility, openness to learning and manage change, a collaborative and inclusive outlook, and an innovation-focused approach to truly imbibe the digital way,” he stated. Digitally mature organisations look beyond just investing in quality digital tools. They relentlessly focus on deriving new business value from digitization, through continual optimisation of operations.
To achieve this, Ikegwu said, “They do not just implement edge solutions. Instead, they use Digital Assessments to integrate digitization into core operations and, in the process, reshape the entire organisation. It helps them to maximise productivity, performance, and ultimately generate industry-leading results.” Consequently, he further stated that after completing a digital assessment and successfully implementing a digital transformation strategy to become digitally mature, “organisations can now say goodbye to busy work and welcome real productivity. Employees thrive in a digitally enhanced work environment, quality training, practical on boarding processes, and user-friendly tools to bring the best out of teams.” Speaking on the need for organisations to be competitive, innovative in the new digital market place, Ikegwu said, “To remain competitive, agile, innovative and responsive, organisations need to be part of the digital revolution. It is reshaping the world right before our eyes in no small measure”. The Associate Partner, Digital and Technology Consulting of pcl., who said digital technology is changing how we work, further stated that almost overnight, entire populations are told to stay at home, and a fully digitized environment became a necessity for businesses to continue operation. “To some extent, this was inevitable with the current rate of innovation, but it is no doubt that COVID-19 has accelerated this process. As society starts to emerge from the pandemic, this new digital reality is here to stay. Digital capabilities will be necessary to perform 90% of jobs in the near future, regardless of the sector.” He said. According to him, the digital transformation strategy of every organisation needs to be well prepared to accommodate varied aspects of digitalisation. It requires a defined objective, an all-encompassing business plan, as well as a workforce ready to take on the challenges that come in the way of achieving the digital goal. The quest for digital transformation begins with a Digital Assessment to identify the state of digitization and recognise the next steps in becoming a truly formidable force in the future market. At Phillips Consulting, he said, “We support organisations in conducting digital assessments (readiness, culture, platforms) and developing a digital strategy for proper alignment between digital journey and business goals.”