Onungwe Obe in Yenagoa The Governor of Bayelsa State, Senator Douye Diri, and former Governor Seriake Dickson have condemned the attack on Dickson’s country home, which resulted in the death of a police inspector. The inspector was killed on Wednesday night by gunmen who attempted to raid the Toru-Orua , Sagbama Local Government Area home of Dickson. Dickson. The Bayelsa State Police Public Relations Officer, Mr. Asinim Butswat, who confirmed the incident to THISDAY yesterday, said the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Mike Okoli, visited the scene of the incident yesterday morning. Butswat said the deceased had led the resistance to the gunmen, who came in through River Forcados to attack the home of the former governor. He said the police commissioner has ordered a thorough investigation into the incident and to bring the attackers to book. He said the body of the deceased inspector has been deposited in a mortuary. He however did not give the name of the deceased. Meanwhile, Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has strongly condemned the attack, according to a statement by his Chief Press secretary, Mr. Daniel Alabrah. Diri said it was unthinkable that an illustrious son of Bayelsa and the Ijaw nation as Chief Dickson could be the target of such a mindless attack and promised that his government would work with the police and other security agencies to bring the perpetrators to book. The governor commiserated with the family of the police officer and extended his condolences to the Inspector General of Police and the police authorities over the loss. A statement by Fidelis Soriwei, the Chief Press Secretary to the former governor, said Dickson and his family were not at home when the incident occurred. The former Governor condoled with the immediate family of the late police officer, the Inspector General of Police, the Bayelsa State Commissioner of police and the entire police team on the death of the gallant policeman. He said Dickson, who is a candidate in the December 5th senatorial election for Bayelsa West, called on his supporters across the Ijaw nation to give relevant information to the police to aid their investigation into the
crime.