The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele will host the 55th Annual Bankers Dinner organised by the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) on Friday, November 27, 2020. The event will hold in Lagos, with strict adherence to the protocol against the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The event will also be transmitted simultaneously through Zoom teleconferencing to accommodate participation across the globe. According to a statement, Emefiele will delivering a keynote address where he is expected to present the banking industry’s score card for the current year as well as provide economic insight into the monetary policy and regulatory direction for the coming year. The Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and other state governors are expected to grace the occasion as special guests of honour. Other dignitaries expected at the occasion include the President/Chairman, Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote; Chairman, Fate Foundation, Mr. Fola Adeola; President, Nigerian Stock Exchange, Mr. Abimbola Ogunbanjo; Chairman, Elizade Nigeria Limited, Chief Michael Ade-Ojo; and Chairman, Heirs Holdings, Tony Elumelu. Others are Alhaji Umaru Ibrahim, Managing Director/Chief Executive, NDIC; all Deputy Governors and Directors of Central Bank of Nigeria; all Chairmen and Managing Directors/CEOs of banks; Mr. Wale Tinubu, Chairman, Oando Plc; Mr. Segun Ogunsanya, Managing Director/Chief Executive, Airtel Nigeria Ltd among others. The President/Chairman of Council, CIBN, Mr. Bayo Olugbemi is expectrd b FCIB, President/Chairman of Council, CIBN, will deliver the Welcome Address while Mr. ‘Seye Awojobi, FCIB, Registrar/CEO, CIBN give the vote of thanks.
The Organising Committee of this year’s edition of the Dinner is Chaired by the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Sterling Bank Plc, Mr. Abubakar Sulieman. The Annual Bankers’ Dinner is a thought-led socio-economic event of the Industry and being the biggest high-profile social forum annually organised by the institute for the banking and finance industry, distinguished personalities including captains of industry, top executives of banks and non-bank institutions including CEOs and Chairmen, Diplomatic Missions, top government functionaries, legislators, accomplished businessmen, academics and other stakeholders are usually gathered to interact and network under a pleasant social setting.