Mary Nnah The 2020 edition of the Back to School Programme of Her Excellency, Dr. (Mrs.) Martha Emmanuel, wife of Akwa Ibom State Governor was emotion packed as she welcomed one of her daughters, Bright Bassey, who recently completed her NYSC scheme after graduating from Law school. Bassey is the very first graduate from the First Lady’s foster home, Divine Children’s Home, Atan Offot, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. Another landmark event during the occasion was the kitting of Master Destiny for a new academic session. Destiny was abandoned at an infant stage by his parents until Her Excellency through her pet project, Family Empowerment and Youth Reorientation Path-initiative (FEYReP) came to his rescue. Other children of the Home were also kitted by the governor’s wife for the new academic session with a charge for them to study hard. The First Lady admonished the children to refrain from all negative vices, stay obedient and determined to succeed, adding, “I am prepared to sponsor you all the way through any level of education so long as you remain level-headed and focused.” She encouraged them to be studious and hardworking in order for them to attain great height in life. She later presented school items to the children for the new academic session. Commissioner for Ministry of Women Affair and Social Welfare, Dr. Ini Adiakpan in her goodwill message extolled the gestures of the first lady, stating that the lives of the children have changed for good. She also encouraged the children to make good use of the opportunity they have as this will guarantee a bright future for them. The coordinator of FEYReP, Mrs. Ime Inyang, speaking earlier, said this year’s episode was a bumper package as the center celebrated their first graduate and the first day in school for Master Destiny, who three years ago was abandoned to die, but picked up and nurtured by the governor’s wife. She made known that the ‘Back to School’ project is an annual programme that caters to the educational needs of the children of the center in all levels of education. The forerunner of FEYReP stressed that the home accommodates not fewer than 200 children in a suitable ambience with dedicated caregivers and teachers that allow them to learn and grow well. Another beneficiary, Master Effiong Okon, expressed profound gratitude to her Excellency for painstakingly catering for their every need, not minding that they are not her biological children and pledged to make her proud.