Germany’s Bundesliga giants Bayern Munich have withdrawn their offer of a contract extension to Nigeria-born Austrian international David Alaba, according to the club’s President Herbert Hainer. Alaba, 28, is out of contract next summer and is set to leave the Bavarian on a free transfer. Clubs in England and Spain are interested in his services. The versatile defender has made almost 400 appearances for Bayern and won 17 major honours since making his debut at the Allianz Arena in 2010. Bayern had hoped Alaba would extend his stay after he helped the club to the treble last season – but any hope of the versatile defender penning a new deal appears to be gone as Hainer confirmed the offer is no longer on the table. “We presented him with a really, very good, very fair, competitive offer – especially during these times,” the Bayern chief said, as per Bavarian outlet BR24 . “We told David’s agent during the last meeting that we wanted clarity and an answer by the end of October because we want to plan for such an important position and player. But we haven’t heard anything until Saturday. “Our Sporting Director Hasan Salihamidzic then contacted the agent and the answer was that the offer is still unsatisfying and that we should think more. “We then decided to take the offer off the table completely. That means there is no longer any offer.” The news will come as a boost to Alaba’s host of suitors, while further reports from Germany claim the player and his representatives were surprised by Bayern’s decision to withdraw their offer. Sport1 reports the player is continuing to push for improved terms but notes “there are hardened fronts (between Alaba and Bayern) as never before”. Alaba has continued to feature prominently for Bayern this season, making eight appearances across all competitions, but he was dropped to the bench for Saturday’s 2-1 victory at Koln. A natural left-back, Alaba has often been deployed in central defence by manager Hansi Flick, while he can also play in midfield.