High Life
Sibling rivalry has existed for as long as humanity has existed. Some are over in a moment; some take decades: some never end. It is a welcome development that the Saraki sibling rivalry has come to an end, after years of snubbing and the occasional snide remark. The Saraki family is in a much better place at the close of 2020 than it was last year, all thanks to the 8th-year remembrance ceremony of their late father, Oloye Dr. Abubakar Olusola Saraki, and the intervention of Lagos-based cleric, Sheikh Sulaiman Farooq Onikijipa. Held at the late Senate Leader’s Iloffa GRA residence, the ceremony saw the reunion of former Senate President, Bukola Abubakar Saraki, and his sister, Gbemisola Rukayyat Saraki. Sheikh Onikijipa led the prayers and demonstrated the renewal of ties between Bukola and Gbemi Saraki by having them hold hands. Thus, all hatchets born from political differences and personal beliefs are to be set aside and buried. Truly, this is a welcome development, and something their father, ‘Oloye’ Saraki would applaud if he were still around. The number of Nigerian siblings who are as accomplished on the political landscape as Bukola and Gbemi Saraki can be counted on one hand. Both of them walk the path their father walked, becoming political pillars and Senators. Unfortunately, they rode under different canopies. It is stated in some quarters that Senator Gbemi Saraki would have (in 2011) become Nigeria’s first female Governor, if her brother hadn’t directly opposed her. But all that is water under the bridge now.
In an age where political parties and ideologies are traded with battling eyes, the Saraki siblings appeared to be different, very loyal—according to onlookers—to withstanding themselves. This rarity is why certain folks refused to believe that difference in political opinions was the bone of contention. No matter now, the past is past and Bukola and Gbemi Saraki can move on together. At the moment, Gbemi Saraki is Minister of State for Transportation, and Bukola Saraki is rumoured to have his eyes on the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential ticket. So, all things are as fine for the Saraki duo as they have always been.
A quick aside: There’s no telling whether their younger sibling, Laolu Saraki, might join Senator Gbemi Saraki in leaving things well enough alone, and making peace with Bukola Saraki. Perhaps with the intervention of Sheikh Sulaiman Farooq Onikijipa? The coming days will tell.