By Bennett Oghifo The 21st edition of the Abuja International Motor Fair will be the first platform for the government to thoroughly explain the recent plan to encourage the conversion of petrol motor vehicles to use gas. The fair, which holds at the International Conference Centre in Abuja from December 2- 8, 2020 will hopefully see the display of Nigeria’s first electric car, the Kona, by Stallion Motors, as well as rev up activities in the auto sector that has been dampened by not only the throes of the Coronavirus but also by global recession and the federal government’s policy inconsistency that throws investors off-guard. The Chairman of the Organising Committee for the event, Mr. Ifeanyichukwu Agwu said, “This year’s edition has been packaged to draw the attention of the government to the importance of urgently addressing the current challenges in the sector so as to use it to drive the nation’s economic diversification policy, as well as the dual fuel autogas policy.” According to Agwu, who is the Managing Director of BKG Exhibitions Limited, they expect to host “virtually all the major brands of automobiles, spare parts, accessories, lubricants, banking with a whole lot of content that is designed to showcase the strength and resilience of the participants, as well as create an educative and fun-filled atmosphere for all stakeholders. “We have carefully put in place a lot of activities geared towards driving much traffic into the fair. These include but not limited to performances by live bands and popular artistes; car gifts; raffle draws; cultural and fashion displays, models/automobile parades and a roadshow. “In our continuous drive to add values to participants, this edition is a total package of all that the automotive and road transport sub-sectors offer. The Bus and Tuck segment of the event has been packaged to draw special attention to manufacturers and or dealers on: Trucks, Buses, Spare Parts, Accessories, Equipment, Components, Logistics, Body Works, SPV’s etc., as Abuja and neighbouring states even countries are good markets for these products and services. Also, new on the stable are: Abuja Autoparts Expo and Construction and Heavy Equipment Expo that run concurrently with the Auto Fair,” he said. He said, “Every effort has been deployed to ensure that the sector receives the needed support from both the government and the private sector to enhance its rapid development. “We are packaging an exhibition that will showcase all the existing and potential investment opportunities that abound in the Nigerian automobile industry, which we believe remains the best sector to invest in Nigeria.” The Managing Director said, “Hosting Auto Shows of international standard, such as the Abuja Motor Fair, will go a long way in placing Nigeria in the map of world automotive business and will equally fast-track the making the nation the hub of the automotive business in the continent. For over 20 years, we have been able to create a comprehensive automobile exchange platform drawing global attention. We believe that with high attention from all levels of government leaders, joint efforts of sponsors and organisers, strong supports from the Motoring journalists and people in all fields, and powerful market and social demands, the Abuja International Motor Show is now ‘a must be’ place for any serious player in the industry.”