If every decade of life counts as a single day, the average person could be said to live for a week; the fortunate person might have lived a week and a day; and the blessed person a happy total of nine days. To live to be 90+ is a glory in and of itself, which is how a matronly figure like Mrs. Felicia Adebola Runsewe, ought to be remembered. Mama Felicia Runsewe, the mother of Otunba Olusegun Runsewe—the Director-General of National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC)—passed on to further glory in the early hours of October 17, 2020, a Saturday. At the time of her death, Mama Runsewe was a happy 94-year-old, a mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, as well as a luminary in retail business (for which she was aptly nicknamed “Mama Kaduna”). According to reports on this front, the only surviving son of Mama Runsewe (Otunba Segun Runsewe) has arranged for her to be sent off to glory in a most genteel way: a Wake on Thursday December 17 at Chapel of the Healing Cross, opposite LUTH, Idi Araba, Surulere Lagos, starting 5pm; the funeral service at the same location on the following day, starting 10am; and a Reception event to be held at Eagle Club Event Centre, Opposite ShopRite/Leisure Mall, Adeniran Ogunsanya Street, Surulere. For a mother that accomplished and yielded much for the sake of her children and others around her, a befitting burial is just that—befitting. Born in 1926, Mama Runsewe made a name for herself on the business lanes of Kaduna State. And that was how she thrived with/in Nigeria’s very first (chain of) department stores, Kingsway Stores. Ultimately, that venture produced a businesswoman like no other who went into ‘private practice’ and continued on to become very successful. Even when she left Kaduna for Lagos in the late ’80s, that breath of success remained with her. Mama Felicia Runsewe’s wealth included the fruits of her womb: the late Ojafolarin Runsewe, Otunba Segun Runsewe (DG of NCAC), and Mrs. Mopelola Ayanfalu (Assistant Director of National Orientation Agency (NOA), Amuwo Odofin, Lagos State). Ninety-four years of life, a mother of three generations of the Runsewe family—that’s Mama Felicia Adebola Runsewe.