Raheem Akingbolu
As part of moves to sustain its innovative drive, CHI Limited has rolled out another product, Hollandia Slim Evaporated Milk – a partially skimmed evaporated milk product. With its offer of 50 per cent less fat, higher protein, and other elements, the new offering was said to be the first of its kind in the low-fat segment of the evaporated milk category in Nigeria. According to a statement issued by the promoters of the brand, the new product comes in aseptic and hygienic Tetra Pak packaging and is expected to be a regular feature on breakfast tables in homes and offices around the country.
It can also be used during tea and coffee breaks with snacks, and/or with other beverages. CHI Limited Marketing Director, Mrs. Toyin Nnodi, described the new product saying, “Exercising regularly, eating healthy, and adopting a healthy lifestyle are the in-thing today. We are, therefore, introducing Hollandia Slim Evaporated Milk to cater to a large number of consumers who are very conscious of their health and desire to have the optimum weight and body shape they can reasonably achieve.” Nnodi added, “We believe that Hollandia Slim Evap Milk will be warmly received by all consumers, but even more so by those persons who desire to stay healthy, trendy, and confident, whilst indulging in the goodness, richness and nourishment of milk without any guilt. In addition, we have made this product available at the right value price points to make it affordable and accessible to all consumers.” Hollandia Slim Evap Milk is available in 60g, 120g, and 190g pack sizes which retail for N50, N100 and N150 respectively. The products can be purchased in supermarkets, departmental stores, markets, neighborhood stores, and kiosks across Nigeria. CHI Limited is one of the most admired companies in the Food & Beverages industry in Nigeria. It offers products that are themselves benchmarks in their respective categories of Juice, Dairy and Snacks which includes CHIVITA Active, CHI Exotic, Hollandia Yoghurt, Hollandia Evaporated Milk, Beefie Meat Pie, HungryMan’s Beefie and CHI Classic Cake.