Emma Okonji The Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife has announced that it recently graduated 200 nursing students, through an online programme, in partnership with EduTech, which provided the online technology facilities and platform. Speaking about the prospects and challenges of online learning during a recent webinar organised by EduTech, a technology learning platform, its General Manger, Mr. Femi Shonubi, said EduTech was able to reduce the cost of bandwidth to support students’ online connectivity and that the online programme was able to eliminate challenges of hostel accommodation for campus students and the challenges of transportation for off-campus students, since they could have virtual online studies with their lecturers from the comfort of their homes. “We are delighted to help facilitate another batch of graduates in partnership with the OAU CDL. Coming at a time that there’s renewed focus on alternate means of studying following the COVID-19 pandemic, we are pleased to prove that e-learning platforms are not only viable in Africa but hardworking students can leverage our technology platforms to bag first class degrees as demonstrated by the duo of Olumuyiwa Elizabeth Amoo and Dolapo Rukayat Adebisi who finished top of the class among the 200 graduating students in a four-years of rigorous study, that attracted practicals and written examinations,” Shonubi said. EduTech recorded double milestones in December 2019 when the first set of students in the B.Sc Accounting programme in OAU graduated through the EduTech online platform, with three members of the class finishing with first-class degrees.
In order to help more students participate in the online degree programme, EduTech also announced the launch of its student financing solution, called EduCollect. The solution, which is an education financing gateway, aggregates funders to provide loans to students of various academic institutions. Created for both students and guardians, the solution facilitates secure loans with no collateral, to allow students continue with their studies without the added pressure of bulk and upfront payments. “As a pioneer in the education financing space in Nigeria, EduCollect will provide unparalleled access to short-term loans with a convenient repayment regime at some of the lowest interest rates in the market without any collateral. By following three simple steps, interested students can secure their education through EduCollect,” Shonubi said.
Aside OAU, EduTech is also partnering other universities in the country like Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Kaduna State, Babcock University, Ilishan-Remo in Ogun State, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), Lagos, to promote online learning, with plans to partner more universities and institutions in the country. Since its inception in 2012, EduTech has partnered with and deployed e-learning solutions for a broad spectrum of entities ranging from universities to corporate institutions as it focuses on its goal of bridging the gap between demand for and access to quality education through the process of decentralising the traditional method of learning.