James Sowole in Akure Seven persons including Amaka, the wife of the former Senate Leader, Senator Ndoma Egba, last night lost their lives while no fewer than eight others, were critically injured, in a fatal accident, that involved four vehicles. President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed his condolences to Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba and members of his family over the sudden and tragic death of his wife, Mrs. Amaka Ndoma-Egba. The vehicles involved according to a source, are a commercial Toyota Avensis car bus, a Honda car, a truck and a Toyota Coaster bus belonging to the Sports Centre of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko (AAUA). The accident, occurred near the military check point along Ore-Okitipupa Road in Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State. It was gathered that the late wife of the former Senate Leader, was being conveyed in a Toyota Coaster Bus, belonging to the Sports Centre of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba, Akoko from Benin to Igbokoda, in Ilaje Local Government Area of the state. The occupants of the ill-fated bus, according to the source, were on the way for a burial programme at Igbokoda. It was gathered that the truck first hit the two cars before ramming into the coaster bus which it pushed into the bush. Four persons including Amaka, were said to have died in the bus while three others died in the two cars that were first hit by the truck. Confirming the accident, the Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ondo State, Mr. Ahmed Hassan, confirmed the accident. The sector commander, however, said that only four persons, three females and a male died in the accident. He also disclosed that eight other persons were critically injured and taken to Pima Hospital, Ore, for treatment He said: “The accident happened around 9:00p.m. It involved three vehicles. Four of the occupants of the bus, died three female and one male. “The accident was caused by loss of concentration and speed violation.” Also speaking, the Head of Public Relations, Media and Protocol of AAUA, Mr. Victor Akinpelumi, said the only information he had, was that a Coaster bus of the institution, on official assignment, was involved in an accident. “The university has sent officers from the Works Department to the area to assess the situation and were being expected.” The president, according to his spokesman, Mr. Femi Adesina, in a statement, said his thoughts and prayers were with them in this period of grief. He prayed divine comfort for the entire family of Ndoma-Egba and peaceful repose of the soul of the departed.