Gadol Financial Services Limited, has received the final approval by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to operate in the financial market. Commenting on the development, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Gadol Financial Services, Mr. Patrick Obi-Akatchak, said while adhering strictly to industry guidelines, they are  set to change the dynamics of lending for the betterment of  their  customers and ultimately the  society. “We are also introducing a system with the shortest turnaround time where borrowers will walk in with their request and walk out with their loan; and investors will receive sustainable returns,” he added. According to him, over 60 years combined board members’ would be leveraged on to fulfil the    promises of quality service delivery and customer satisfaction. This also includes that of the MD/CEO whose banking experience spans among three major banks in Nigeria, the last of where he resigned as a branch manager to establish a multipurpose finance cooperative society. “Having observed the impersonal loan service approach employed by most institutions in the financial industry towards customers, Gadol Financial Services Limited seeks to penetrate the market withthe adoption of the latest approaches in global administrative
practicesand professional empathy towards its customers. “The company has consequently designed a number of products so as to achieve this. One of the most prominent features amongst these products is the company’s disposition to tailor products and services
to meet customers’ peculiarities. “Some generic products are also available to borrowers and they include but not limited to personal loans, auto loan, asset financing, contract financing,” the company explained.
Gadol Financial Services Limited added that it is positioned to be an investor’s haven. “With the adoption of a strong corporate governance model, priority is placed on the sustainability of investors returns. The company alsofocuses on modifying rates in realistic proportions and in conformity with industry realities. This is to ensure that while it remains competitive in the industry, investors’ funds are protected and
returns are maximised,” it said.