By Victor Ogunje The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has employed 600 secondary school teachers, saying all employments into the teaching service would be based on merit to prevent the recruitment of mediocre teachers. Fayemi charged teachers in the state to always display commitment to diligence, excellence and integrity in molding a ‘total child’ both in academic and moral excellence. The governor gave the charge yesterday while flagging off a three-day induction programme for newly recruited secondary school teachers in the state. About 600 newly recruited teachers participated in the exercise which took place at St Louis Grammar School in Ikere Ekiti. They were part of the successful candidates in the recruitment exercise by the state Teaching Service Commission earlier in the year as well as those who did conversion and transfer of service from other areas to the teaching profession. Fayemi said the process of selecting applicants was transparent, competitive and merit-based regardless of background, gender, religion, political colouration, and in some cases, state of origin. “The employment is merit-based. We won’t tolerate mediocrity in teachers because of the future of our dear state, and to also ensure we preserve the education sector-the only thriving industry we have,” he stated. The governor told the new teachers that “our children are our future; they are our tomorrow and they are now in your hands. Whatever you make out of them is what tomorrow will be for our country. The input will determine the output, hence the need for you to make positive impact on the lives of the children. “I plead with you to build a total child. You should place premium not only on academics but also morals. Let every child that passes through you come out better in learning and sound character.” He stressed that the quest to build not only best teachers but also produce best schools and best students in every subject can only be achieved with the cooperation and commitment of all stakeholders in the education sector. “I therefore want you to note that the induction is a crucial step to welcoming you as new teachers into the teaching profession. We will also continue to equip the old teachers with new teaching method for quality and effective teaching and learning. “I want to equally urge you to be teachers and not cheaters, be a role model. If you are good, the society will be good but if you are bad, the society will be bad. I want to assure that we will supervise you to ensure that you deliver nothing but the best,” Fayemi said. Earlier, the Chairman of Ekiti State Teaching Service Commission, Babatunde Abegunde, disclosed that the number of the newly appointed teachers made a nine percent increase in the current stock of teachers in the state and 3 percent of the total applicants for the teaching job.