Chris Uba The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has commenced a nationwide sensitisation campaign on the need to have only standards and quality products in circulation across the country. The Director-General of the agency, Farouk Salim who stated this, said the campaign was being executed with the organisation’s relevant stakeholders in various sectors of the nation’s economy, maintaining that the benefits of stocking, selling and patronising quality and standard products could not be over emphasised. Meanwhile, the agency has declared that the renewed partnership with the Nigerian Police would help to increase its level of enforcement activities in the country.
Salim, made this known when he paid a courtesy visit to the Commissioner of Police in Enugu State, Ahmad Abdurrahman, in Enugu, recently. He said the existing cooperation between the agency and the police had lasted for over 50 years, adding that the “time has come to re-enforce the partnership for the greater benefit of the country in checking sub-standard goods’’. “With the help of the police, collaboration of other government regulatory agencies and other stakeholders; SON will definitely deliver on its mandate to secure all goods sold and consumed in the country. “The police can further help us with enough officers and men to make our enforcement operations seamless,’’ he said. He, however, sympathised with the police especially Enugu State Police Command for personnel and working material lost during the hijack of the peaceful #EndSARS protest by hoodlums in the state.
“As partners in progress, SON is standing with the Nigerian Police especially this command in this trying period and we will not mind to contribute our little quota to bring succour to families of deceased policemen if called upon to do so,’’ he said. Responding, Abdurrahman assured SON of cooperation to carry out its mandate of enforcement in the state and rid the state and by extension the nation of sub-standard products. According to the commissioner, SON is also security organisation by the virtual of their mandate.
“The police will support your work; since the work of SON and police are closely related in that police check human criminality; while SON checks materials or goods criminality. “So, SON is a partner in our quest to reduce all forms of crimes in the country. And once an agency, like SON, is ridiculed; the entire nation will not move forward,’’ he said. Highlights of the visit were souvenir presented by the commissioner to the director-general of SON and a group photograph of SON top officials and senior ranking police officers.