Ejiofor Alike The Chairman of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), Prof. James Momoh has commended Ikeja Electric, Nigeria’s largest Electricity Distribution Company, for taking the lead in keeping pace with technology, to bring about the desired change in the power sector. Momoh, who gave the commendation during an oversight visit to the corporate Head Office of Ikeja Electric in Lagos, noted that Ikeja Electric has shown strong commitment to solving issues militating against growth of the sector through technology while also providing innovative solutions to create better customer experience. “You have shown yourself to be a leader and good manager of the industry, making a most profound impact on both industry and customers alike. I have no doubt, therefore, going by technological innovation evolved by your company, that Ikeja Electric is the Disco the industry can depend on for inspiration and ideas to move the power sector forward,” he said. He further congratulated Ikeja Electric for being at the forefront of promoting gender equality in the electricity sector and used the opportunity to restate NERC’s commitment to metering of every electricity user across the country. He called on Ikeja Electric to create knowledge management initiatives that incorporates Institutions of Higher Learning, in order to create a pool which will sustain the technological advancement recorded so far in the industry. Chairman of Ikeja Electric, Mr. Kola Adesina, in his response, thanked Momoh and his entourage for the visit to Ikeja Electric, especially as it coincides with the seventh anniversary of privatisation. He commended the NERC chairman for his unwavering belief in the Nigerian polity, noting that the experience and purpose of Momoh has brought a lot of positive changes to the system. While thanking the NERC Chairman and his team, the Chief Executive Officer of Ikeja Electric, Mrs. Folake Soetan, reiterated the company’s commitment to the transformation of the power sector, with a focus on creating superior customer experience.