In line with its policy on wealth creation, the Lagos State government has embarked on the retraining of artisans and tradesmen, as part of efforts to restore public confidence in the sector’s competence. Speaking during the flag-off ceremony of Y2020 upskilling of 2000 Tradesmen and Artisans in Lagos recently, Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs. Yetunde Arobieke stated that the initiative was put together to enable the trainees meet up with the job demands for the 21st-century economy. She restated that the retraining of 1,500 Artisans and 500 Tradesmen, which were drawn from the Lagos State Council for Tradesmen and Artisans, LASCOTA, was a demonstration of the government’s commitment to enhance the competence and quality of artisans and traders in the state for global competitiveness. She said, “It gives me a deep sense of satisfaction to note that we are committed to ensuring that the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise, MSME sector of Lagos State’s economy, to which most of you belong, grow and flourishes.” She urged beneficiaries of the programme to reciprocate the kind gesture of the government by contributing their quota towards the attainment of a “Greater Lagos, Your Lagos, Our Lagos.” She warned that the training programme was not just about going to various centres and getting a certificate, but about broadening scope, widening horizon, thinking creatively and absorbing the truth about life. We must see the training beyond our certificates.” Arobieke also restated the state’s commitment to the informal sector, as demonstrated through the implementation of different programmes anchored by the Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment in collaboration with other agencies. The Executive Secretary of Lagos State Technical and Vocational Education Board, LASTVEB, Ms. Ronke Azeez, had earlier introduced the 2,000 Artisans and Tradesmen who are to be trained in 19 different fields including fashion designing, block laying, catering, barbing, shoe making, cosmetology and hair dressing, among others. She explained that the programme, which will last for eight weeks, will be held in two batches: Tuesdays and Wednesdays for those in tradesmen category, and Saturdays and Sundays for Artisans in three Government Technical Colleges, namely: Ikotun, Ikorodu and Agidingbi, respectively. The President of LASCOTA, Alhaji Nurudeen Buhari, appreciated the gesture by the government and urged the participants to be of good conduct and to be good ambassadors in their respective fields.