Emmanuel Addeh in Abuja The Office of the Surveyor General of the Federation (OSGoF) has presented a total budget of N3.079 for 2021 to the National Assembly as against the amended budget of N2.812 of the office in 2020. The government institution said that approximately N1.9 billion was for capital projects as against N1billion for 2020 and N943million for personnel cost compared to N710 million for this year as well as N225 million overhead cost against that of 2020 which was N153 million. A statement by Head of Press and Public Relations in the office, Mr Michael Abu, also quoted the Surveyor General of the Federation (SGoF), Mr Samuel Adeniran, as calling for the legislators’ assistance in its bid to revamp its operations for optimum contribution to nation building. Adeniran who spoke during the 2021 budget defence of agencies under the Ministry of Works and Housing at the National Assembly Complex, Abuja, emphasised the importance of large scale mapping that could help the federal government achieve much in terms of Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), effective policing, planning and economic development. The statement noted that in view of the critical functions of the office, the House Committee on Works and Housing, expressed the need for the review of the Survey Coordination Act of 1962. Chairman of the committee, Hon. Abubakar Bichi and members of the committee agreed that the act as it is, is already out of touch with present realities and asked Adeniran to make available necessary documents to the members of the committee for study and recommendation for proper legislation. During the session with the SGoF, the committee observed that the office was capable of generating huge amount of money for the country, prompting the need to mainstream surveying and mapping activities in the country. Members of the committee also noted the need for the posting of surveyors to all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of the government and working on all surveying and mapping components from MDAs to OSGoF for revenue generation and proper management. Meanwhile, the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA) has donated equipment for Continuously Operating Reference Station (CORS) to the office in Abuja. Executive Director of AFRIGIST, Dr. Adewale Akingbade who presented the equipment on behalf of UNECA said the equipment was the first set of the two that would be given to OSGoF as part of its support for its activities. The Executive Director was accompanied by his deputy, Abdoulaye Belem; Mr. Muhammadu Soumah, Head of Photogrammetry and Remote-Sensing; Mr. Bolaji Akeredolu, Head of Finance and Account; and Mr. Aminu Liman, Business Development Officer.