Honeycomb Confectioneries Limited, a quality premium food company in Lagos, is rolling out the drums in celebration of its 5th year anniversary. Some of the programmes and events already lined up to celebrate the anniversary include thanksgiving service, Distributors’ Forum and the first annual guest lecture tagged: “Eating Right, Eating Healthy in the State of Pandemic.” The Annual Distributors’ Forum will take a new dimension in commemoration of the anniversary. Speaking on the upcoming lecture, the Executive Vice Chair of Honeycomb Confectioneries Limited, Mrs. Biyi Tunji-Olugbodi, said the guest lecture is the first of its kind from Honeycomb Confectioneries and the theme for the lecture is a reflection on the new world order that warrants eating healthy. The most crucial way to build one’s immunity is through healthy eating. According to World Health Organization (WHO), eating a healthy diet is very important during the COVID-19 pandemic. With the coming of the second wave of the coronavirus, it is important for one to prepare especially in the area of health. The conference is set to empower participants with practical knowledge to eating healthy in the state of pandemic. According to her, “As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility, we have decided to put together this event so that we can educate the public on a topical issue such as this. The world has become hybrid and human activities has reduced , however, everyone needs to know the best way of nourishing their bodies.” The lecture is set to hold on Wednesday, November 25th, 2020 from 2PM – 3PM. The keynote Speaker of the virtual event is Dr Joy Odimegwu from the Department of Pharmacognosy, College of Medicine, University of Lagos, others are the Special Guests of Honour, Dr (Mrs) Lola Akande, Commissioner for Commerce, Industry & cooperatives, Lagos State and Ms Abisola Olusanya, Commissioner for Agriculture, Lagos State. Honeycomb Confectioneries Limited is a confectionary company that is passionate about feeding the nation with quality premium food. Established on November 1, 2015 at 7, Akowonjo Road, Dopemu Lagos and currently produce various loaves to delight her teeming consumers.