Loses officer, two soldiers By Michael Olugbode The Nigerian military yesterday claimed that 75 terrorists were eliminated in some of its clampdown on Boko Haram/Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) in the North-east in the last one month. The military however lost one officer and two soldiers to the terrorists during the period under review. Addressing a press conference at Ngamdu, Borno State, the base of Operation Fire Ball, established a month ago by the military in the North-east to further strengthen the ongoing counter-insurgency operation in the troubled region, the Acting Director, Defence Media Operations, Brig. Gen. Benard Onyeuko, said Operation Fire Ball, a subsidiary operation under Operation Lafiya Dole meant to clear the remnants of the Boko Haram/ Islamic State West Africa Province terrorists from their identified enclaves in the North East region, has recorded tremendous success within the short period from its existence. He described last week of the preceding month as the deadliest against the criminals. He said: “The troops in the various sectors of the theatre have continued to carry out their tasks relentlessly. The successes so far achieved wouldn’t have been possible without the sacrifice, commitment and gallantry exhibited by the well- motivated troops some of whom have paid the supreme sacrifice. “Within this period, the troops have carried out aggressive clearance operations, ambushes, robust day and night patrols in order to finally decimate the remnants of the Boko Haram/ISWAP criminals. “Consequently, as a result of the aggressive offensive action carried out by the troops, several terrorists elements have been neutralised as large number of their equipment were captured while some were equally destroyed in the process. “In this regard a total of 75 Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists were neutralised within this period. In terms of the criminals equipment four Gun Trucks, one Bedford Truck, three Anti-aircraft guns were destroyed.” Onyeuko added that captured weapons include: six Gun Trucks, four Anti-aircraft guns, one PKT gun, four General Purpose Machine Guns, one Automatic Grenade Launcher, one Dushka Gun, one Light Machine Gun, 48 AK 47 Rifles, one Locally made Pistol and 10 AK 47 magazines. He said: “Furthermore, large cache of ammunition was captured also. This include: a 36 Hand Grenade, 567 rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition, 448 rounds of 12.7mm ammunition, 50 Rocket Propelled Grenade bombs, 17 locally manufactured rounds, three shells for making Improvised Explosive Device, a Smoke Grenade and two belts of PKT rounds and other assorted non- lethal items. He however lamented that an officer and two soldiers paid the supreme price, with four other soldiers wounded in action over the period. He said the wounded soldiers have since been evacuated to a military medical facility and are currently responding to treatment. He commended the troops of Operation Fire Ball for their resilience, doggedness and commitment since the beginning of the Operation, while urging them not to rest on their oars but build on the successes recorded so far.