Chinedu Eze
The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila has expressed the determination of the House of Representatives to continue to support legislations that would reposition the aviation industry for greater efficiency.
The Speaker stated this when he declared open the three-day public hearing on six executive Bills seeking to amend certain aspects of the civil aviation Acts recently. He described the public hearing as an important law-making process that affords members of the public ample opportunity to voice their views either for or against any proposed laws before the parliament.
Gbajabiamila, however, urged the stakeholders to make meaningful submissions that would assist the parliament in coming up with amendments that would be in tandem with International Civil Aviation Organisation, (ICAO) best practices. The Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Aviation, Mr. Nnolim Nnaji, earlier in his opening address noted that the House of Representatives in recognition of the importance of aviation in national economy had considered the Executive Bills and referred them to the committee for further legislative actions.
He said the need for these enabling Acts to be repealed were glaring, considering the urgent need to meet the contemporary demands and international standards for the general development of the aviation sector. “It is pertinent to note that since the last review of these agencies’ Acts, significant changes and developments have taken place in the industry, which necessitated the review and amendment of these Acts so as to bring them up to date with the operational requirements and dictates of the industry,” he added. The Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, in his opening remarks, said the journey to the proposal for the amendments of the Acts establishing the agencies under the Nigeria Civil Aviation commenced following the result of findings in the International Civil Aviation Organization, (ICAO) Universal Safety Oversight Audit programme, (USOAP) in the year 2006 as well as findings from the United States’ Federal Aviation Administration, (FAA) category one/Certification Audit in the year 2010 that establishment Acts of some of the aviation service providers contained certain regulatory powers. He observed that the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, (NCAA) ought to be the only autonomous regulatory agency in Nigeria, adding that the anomaly necessitated the amendments to take a corrective action to address the audit findings.
The proposed Bills are; a Bill for an Act to repeal the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, (FAAN) Act, CapF5, LFN, 2010 and to enact the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, (FAAN) Act to provide for effective management of airports in Nigeria and for related matters, a Bill for an Act to repeal the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, (NAMA) Act, Cap N90LFN, 2010 and to enact the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, (NAMA) Act for the purposes of providing effective air navigation services in Nigeria, ensuring safety and regularity of air navigation in Nigeria and to any other place which Nigeria has responsibility of providing air navigation services and for related matters, and a Bill for an Act to provide for establishment of the Nigerian Safety Investigation Bureau for the regulation, prevention and providing effective administration for safety investigation in Nigeria and for related matters. Ugwuanyi Welcomes Dana Air to Enugu
The Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Uguanyi has commended Dana Air for its decision to restart flights to the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu
The Governor made the remark during a courtesy visit by Dana Air’s management team to the Government House on the airline’s inaugural flight to the state. Ugwuanyi, while receiving the management team of Dana Air led by the Chief Operating officer Obi Mbanuzuo said, “We are happy to have a reputable airline like Dana Air in Enugu state.”
“Enugu state is peaceful and our economy is growing really fast. With Dana air in Enugu, we now have the game changer. Enugu is a salaried state and our people will be returning home soon. We are sure to have very efficient service with competitive fares,” he added. ”We once again commend your decision to commence flights to the Akanu Ibiam International airport and we are also committed to supporting Dana Air. Feel free to visit us anytime and we will be available to support you in any form.”
The Chief Operating Officer of Dana Air, Obi Mbanuzuo while responding to the governor said, ”Your Excellency we have come to contribute positively to the economy of Enugu state and to also provide daily flight services from Enugu to Lagos and Abuja ”Enugu state is peaceful and we are proud of your good work Sir. We are happy to contribute our quota to the growth and development going on in the state, for the overall benefit of the good people of Enugu state.”
Dana Air is starting with one daily flight from Lagos to Enugu at 7.30, Enugu to Abuja at 9.05, Abuja to Enugu at 12.25 and Enugu to Lagos at 2.15 daily with a plan to increase frequency in the coming weeks. ”We will offer seamless connectivity and options to the good people of Enugu state and our fares are very competitive when you plan your trip with us and book early. ”
Dana Air is one of Nigeria’s leading airlines with a mix fleet of 9 aircraft and daily flights from Lagos to Abuja, Port Harcourt, Uyo, owerri and Enugu. New IATA Guidance Prepares for Global Vaccine Distribution
The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has released guidance to ensure that the air cargo industry is ready to support the large-scale handling, transport and distribution of a COVID-19 vaccine.
IATA said its guidance for vaccine, pharmaceutical logistics and distribution provides recommendations for governments and the logistics supply chain in preparation for what would be the largest and most complex global logistics operation ever undertaken. Reflecting the complexity of the challenge, the Guidance was produced with the support of a broad range of partners, including the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations (FIATA), International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA), Pan American Health Organisation (PAHO) , UK Civil Aviation Authority, World Bank, World Customs Organization (WCO) and World Trade Organization (WTO).
The guidance includes a repository of international standards and guidelines related to the transport of vaccines and will be updated regularly as information is made available to the industry. Accompanying the guidance, IATA established a joint information-sharing forum for stakeholders. “Delivering billions of doses of a vaccine that must be transported and stored in a deep-frozen state to the entire world efficiently will involve hugely complex logistical challenges across the supply chain. While the immediate challenge is the implementation of COVID-19 testing measures to re-open borders without quarantine, we must be prepared for when a vaccine is ready. This guidance material is an important part of those preparations,” said IATA’s Director General and CEO, Alexandre de Juniac.