The late Adedibu, in one of the apocryphal tales often attributed to him, was reported to have said that anyone who does not want to be told about the man who deflowered his mother or the juicy details of the romantic adventure should never venture into politics, particularly in this clime. In the same vein, if you are not so smart to hide the skeleton in your cupboard, thread cautiously if you want to seek an elective office anywhere in the world. Sadly, this is the drama currently playing out in the life of Babatunde Olalere Gbadamosi, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, for the December 5, 2020 Lagos East Senatorial District bye-election, especially as his staunch critics insist that the wind has blown and the rump of the hen now exposed. Since the unfolding drama started, many political observers wonder why Gbadamosi is turning a deaf ear to this seeming admonition, if the reports reaching Society Watch are anything to go by. The APC has allegedly called on the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, to disqualify Gbadamosi from participating him in the bye-election on the grounds that the WAEC certificate, which he submitted to INEC, might have been falsified. Determined to expose what it described as Gbadamosi’s proclivity for fraud, the APC said though the PDP candidate claimed to have sat for five subjects – English Language (A3); Literature in English (C5); History (C5); Commerce (C4) and Biology (P7) – in the WAEC result certificate, which he submitted to INEC, the details of his result obtained from WAEC’s official website revealed that he actually sat for eight subjects. His grades, as allegedly obtained from the body’s website by APC, are as follows: Bible Knowledge, F9; Economics, F9; Mathematics, F9; English Language, A3; Literature in English,C5; History, C5; Commerce, C4 and Biology, P7. While the PDP candidate allegedly submitted in Form EC9 that he attended the Lagos State University, LASU, after obtaining his WAEC certificate in 1985, the APC, again pooh-poohed his claim, saying he could not have met the university requirements for admission with that “poor results.” Consequently, the APC has approached a Federal High Court in Lagos seeking an order disqualifying the PDP and Gbadamosi from contesting the forthcoming senatorial bye-election in Lagos East. The party is also praying the court to disqualify Gbadamosi from contesting future elections in view of the alleged falsified certificate he presented to the INEC. An APC source further alleged that the details filled out by Gbadamosi in both Forms EC9 and CF001 regarding his work experience and educational qualifications were “false declarations on oath.” Society Watch also gathered that the APC is urging the court to compel the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to investigate and prosecute Gbadamosi for the alleged offences before or after the election. Also, the APC is seeking an order of the court to disqualify Gbadamosi from contesting the upcoming election or any other elections. It was further gathered that the party wants the court to nullify or quash any votes, which Gbadamosi may score during the upcoming election.