James Sowole in Akure Seven persons including Amaka Ndoma-Egba, wife of former Senate Leader, Senator Ndoma Egba, Thursday night lost their lives while not less than eight others, were critically injured in a fatal accident that involved four vehicles. The vehicles involved according to a source, were a commercial Toyota Avensis car, a Honda car, a truck and a Toyota Coaster bus belonging to the Sports Centre of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko (AAUA). The accident, occured near the military checkpoint along Ore-Okitipupa Road in Odigbo Local Government area of Ondo State. It was gathered that the late wife of the former Senate Leader, was being conveyed in a Toyota Coaster Bus, belonging to the Sports Centre of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba, Akoko from Benin to Igbokoda, in Ilaje Local Government area of the state. The occupants of the ill-fated bus, according to the source, were on their way to a burial programme at Igbokoda. It was gathered that the truck first hit the two cars before pushing the coaster bus into the bush. Four persons including Amaka, were said to have died in the bus while three others died in the two cars that were first hit by the truck. The Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ondo State, Mr Ahmed Hassan, confirmed the accident. The sector commander, however, said that only four persons, three females and a male died in the accident. He also disclosed that eight other persons were critically injured and taken to Pima Hospital, Ore for treatment He said: “The accident happened around 9:00pm. It involved three vehicles. Four of the occupants of the bus, died three female and one male. “The accident was caused by loss of concentration and speed violation.” Also speaking, the Head of Public Relations, Media and Protocol of AAUA, Mr Victor Akinpelumi, said the only information he had, was that a Coaster bus of the institution, on official assignment, was involved in an accident. “The university has sent officers from the Works Department to the area to assess the situation and were being expected.”