By Vanessa Obioha At a virtual press conference led by General Secretary of Dubai Sports Council (DSC), Saeed Hareb, and CEO of Dubai Festivals and Retail Establishment (DFRE) Ahmed Al Khaja, the government of Dubai announced the return of its annual Dubai Fitness Challenge. The 30-day lifestyle challenge has become a staple for the emirate in the United Arab Emirates. “I would like to extend my gratitude and thanks to His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai and Chairman of The Executive Council of Dubai, for his visionary leadership, and for launching and sponsoring this pioneering initiative, which has become one of the most anticipated events on our calendar,” said Hareb. ”I would like to congratulate all the members of the community on the launch of the fourth edition of Dubai Fitness Challenge 30×30, which provides a model for a healthy and happy lifestyle. We are fortunate that our wise leadership encourages us to make sport and physical activity a part of our daily lifestyle” he added. Since its inception in 2017, the citywide fitness movement has been instrumental in strengthening and empowering the spirit of the Dubai community. Now in its fourth year, the challenge which kicked off on October 30 and will end on November 28, features flagship programmes that will be held physically and virtually. The programmes are targeted to energise the city’s residents and visitors while offering more flexibility and convenience, enabling every individual to participate and stay connected from anywhere; whether at home or in safe, socially distanced settings. The action-packed calendar also provides an array of easily accessible fitness and wellness activities and a robust timeline of virtual sessions. The challenge will feature three dedicated Fitness Villages, 10 community-centric Fitness Hubs, more than 200 virtual sessions and over 2,000 classes taking place across 150 locations throughout the month including the biggest citywide fun run with Dubai Run. The government assured participants that public health and safety will remain paramount throughout the Challenge, with all physical events strictly following Dubai government guidelines, including social distancing guidelines, safety precautions and hygiene and sanitization requirements. This edition is an open call for all to embrace an active lifestyle that best fits their unique preferences.