Fadekemi Ajakaiye As Christmas approaches, a real estate firm, Adron Homes has given prospective homeowners an opportunity of huge discounts on purchases on their ‘Lemon Friday’ platform that is mirrored on the popular Black Friday sales. At a press briefing, recently, officials of Adron Homes said this is “the best time to start your journey to becoming a Landlord. Lemon Friday is the company’s version of black Friday sales which offers deep discounts and is generally termed the best time to buy that land or house.” The company’s Group Executive Secretary, Mr. Ayodeji Ojo-Omoniyi said, “The discount is in line with the company’s dedication to continuously give customers opportunities to be homeowners through discounts, royalty rewards and friendly payment plans. For this year’s Lemon Friday sale, customers would enjoy up to 40% discount on all estates in Ikorodu, Epe, Atan-ota, Ibeju Lekki, Badagry, Ijebu Ode, Shimawa, Abeokuta, Osun, Abuja, Nasarawa and Keffi respectively. For every purchase you make, you’d be getting a great deal that Adron is best known for. “Customers can pay as low as N25,000 initial deposit and enjoy up to 36 months payment plan on all properties. This means you could make payment at your pace and within your budget because at Adron Homes, for every budget; there is a piece of land for you in all our estates.
The Director of Sales and Marketing Mrs. Fiyaso Oloruntoba emphasised that “following the season which we are in; a season of giving, Customers would also be getting lots of mouthwatering gift items like Cows, Bags of Rice, Adron Seasoning Pack, Vegetable Oil, Electronics, Turkey and so much more with every purchase. The company is also extending special offers on some of its premium products like Eko city, saying that subscribers here will get a double door fridge and a choice of an additional item of either a six burner gas cooker, a 5KVA generator, a front loader automatic washing machine or a flat screen smart TV upon payment of an initial deposit. The company’s group head admin further stressed that the company’s newly launched estate- New York Parks & Gardens Keffi- is also eligible for this offer.