Hygiene and sanitation brand, Hypo, has called for increased public trust in public toilet facilities to make Nigeria overcome the challenge of open defecation. The organisation made this call while marking this year’s World Toilet Day in partnership with the Lagos State government. In marking the day, Hypo sponsored the cleaning of public toilets and offered free defecation service for Lagosians in selected facilities across Lagos State for three days. Speaking at an event to observe the day at Ojodu Berger public toilet, Lagos, Brand Manager of Hypo Toilet Cleaner, Akintayo Akinseloyin noted that the gesture was part of the company’s effort to build public confidence in public toilet facilities. Akinseloyin observed that many people are discouraged from using public toilets because they fear for their safety. This he said has contributed to the practice of open defecation among over 47 million Nigerians. “In commemorating the 2020 World Toilet Day, we decided to take over the cleaning and management of few toilet facilities, for example, Berger, Arena market in Oshodi and Trade fair, all in Lagos State for the first phase of our programme. We shall be deploying our resources, including the Hypo toilet cleaner to keep the toilet sparkling, attractive and germs free. By so doing, people who make use of the facilities can have a positive view of public toilets and develop a desire to use them when there is need.” Speaking on the theme of the Day, “Sustainable Sanitation and Climate Change, Akinseloyin maintained that Hypo sought to connect the theme with customers by ensuring that they have access to proper toilet facility. “Talking about sustainable development globally, there have always been issues around water, but here in Nigeria, we are faced with the challenge of open defecation. “Hypo is committed to driving behavioural change to bridge infrastructure gap, ensure more public toilets facilities in households and support the federal government to end open defecation by 2025.” Director, Public Health Education, Lagos state Ministry of Health, Mrs. Sola Hassan, commended Hypo’s effort for collaborating with government to end open defecation. “Lagos state government has been building public toilets facilities across the state to quell open defecation and so, I can boldly say that the figure is reducing in the state. Hypo has been quite supportive though several initiatives that have paid off. “The theme for this year’s World Toilet Day has a lot of importance for environmental and personal hygiene which also aligns with the COVID-19 safety campaign. Even presently that some parts of the country are faced with the scourge of Yellow Fever, the place of environmental and personal hygiene cannot be ruled out.” Also speaking, Head, Supervisor, Ojodu Berger Toilet, Adenike Adebayo, expressed appreciation to Hypo for the collaboration and promised to always maintain the standard of hygiene to ensure public safety.