By Emma Okonji The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ibrahim Pantami, has said the federal government will continue to support Arravo, a technology solution provider, on its local content development drive, which he added, would enhance digital transformation across the country. Pantami who gave the commitment during the recent launch of Arravo’s new brand identity in Lagos, said the switch from BCX Nigeria, which hitherto had foreign stakeholders, to Arravo, which is a complete ownership by Nigerians, would enable the new owners to grow the company, using full local content that will benefit Nigerians. According to the Minister, “FG is determined to advance our indigenous content in ICT within Nigeria, particular as it relates to our national digital economy policy for our digital Nigeria. Any effort that will promote digital economy and indigenous content in ICT, will be welcomed by government. Digital economy is currently dominating the world economy. According to Oxford Economist, four years ago, digital economy was valued at $11.5 trillion and at that time, it was up to 15.5 per cent of the entire world economy. Digital Economy in United States of America, in 2017, created up to 5.1 million jobs. “The COVID-19 pandemic which ravaged global economy, compelled nations to adopt and deploy digital technology, which is a clear sign that Nigeria among other nations, must also embrace digital technology to promote our indigenous content.” Our digital economy journey started October 24, 2019, when President Mohammadu Buhari consented to our request to upgrade the Nigerian ministry from Federal Ministry of Communications to Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, Pantami said. He added, “From that time, we were mandated to develop national digital economy policy for our digital Nigeria, which we have already done and it was launched by President Buhari on November 28, 2019 in Abuja. Since the launch, we have been working hard to provide the enabling environment on which digital economy will thrive in the country. “We came up with eight pillars, which include: developmental regulation, digital skills, solid infrastructure, service infrastructure, digital services, software infrastructure, digital society and emerging technologies, and indigenous content development and promotion. “Arravo’s vision for local content development is in line with the 8th pillar of government to promote indigenous content, and government will support Arravo to achieve this. We encourage all stakeholders to promote local content and produce what we need, while government will ensure that we consume what we produce locally,” Pantami said. Managing Director/CEO of Arravo, Mr. Ayo Adegboye, said the parent company from South Africa decided to diverse their stake outside Africa and a few of us came together as investors to acquire the stake from BCX South Africa and BCX Nigeria. The bold step we took to acquire the multi-million dollar stake, has actually brought us to where we are today, with Arravo as the new brand identity. “With the rebranding, we are on our way to becoming the industry giant and we are not going to achieve this all alone. We will be collaborating with industry players to achieve our goal of becoming the industry giant. Our emphasis will be on embracing partnerships and we will try not just to be excellent, but to be exceptional, in order to engage, disrupt and deliver the best of technology solutions for business resilience,” Adegboye said. Original Equipment Manufacturers present at the rebranding event, equally restated their commitments to continue partnering Arravo, even with its new brand identity.