Chinedu Eze The Accident Investigation Bureau Nigeria (AIB-N) has released final reports on flights’ incidents involving Skybird Air, Kabo Air, Aero Contractors and two bulletins involving Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT). The agency gave a final report on a serious incident involving a Gulfstream G-IV aircraft owned and operated by Skybird Air Limited with nationality and registration marks 5N-BOD, which occurred at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja on September 12, 2018. The Commissioner of AIB, Mr. Akin Olateru, at a press conference yesterday in Abuja, attributed the causal factor to delayed response by the crew to recognise that the ground spoilers and thrust reversers were locked out leading to the runway overrun. Safety recommendations were, however, issued to the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, (FAAN), the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority and SkyBird Air Limited. On the incident involving a Boeing 747-200 aircraft owned and operated by Kabo Air Limited, which occurred at Sultan Abubakar Airport, Sokoto (DNSO), Sokoto State on October 4, 2013, Olateru attributed the incident to the unserviceable visual approach Slope Indicator (VASI) on runway 26 and the decision to land on the non-precision runway 26 at night. A safety recommendation was also given to Kabo Air.
On the incident involving a B737-500 aircraft owned and operated by Aero Contractors Company of Nigeria Limited, which occurred on Runway 18R, Murtala Muhammed International Airport, (MMIA) Ikeja, Lagos on April 9, 2016, the commissioner attributed the causal factor to excessive rudder application by the crew after touchdown. Three safety recommendations were issued to Aero Contractors Company and NCAA.
For the incident involving a Tampico Club TB-9 aircraft owned and operated by Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), which occurred at Zaria Aerodrome, Kaduna State on December 10, 2013, Olateru recommended that “the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology should ensure that Flight Instructors emphasise to the student pilots the need for a go-round whenever excessive ballooning/bouncing occurs during landing exercises.” For the incident involving a Tampico Club TB-9 aircraft owned and NCAT, which occurred at Zaria Aerodrome, Kaduna State on June 18, 2014, the commissioner recommended that NCAT include into its Flying School Procedure Manual requirements for mandatory occurrence reporting (MOR) by student pilots.