Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The Concerned All Progressive Congress (APC) group has extended by seven days, the ultimatum given to the party’s Caretaker/ Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee led by Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, to fix the date for the party’s convention. The group recently gave the leadership of the party a 14-day ultimatum to release timetable for the convention or risk mass protest against it by members. But, in a statement issued yesterday by its Spokesperson, Mr. Abdullahi Dauda, the group in a unanimous decision decided to extend its earlier 14 days ultimatum by seven days due to a recent statement credited to the party’s Deputy Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yekini Nabena, that the party was working on the convention time table. The ruling party had during the emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting held at the Presidential Villa on June 25, dissolved the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) following protracted leadership crisis and set up a Caretaker/ Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee to manage the affairs of the party in the interim. The 13-member caretaker committee headed by Buni, was given six months by the NEC presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari to complete its assignment. Within the six months, the committee was mandated to organise a national convention for new leaders to emerge and was also mandated to reconcile aggrieved members. But the perceived inaction of the caretaker committee to fix a date for the convention is already creating ripples within the party. The group stated: “In the light of the seven days extension, we hope that the failure and disappointments that characterise the period of the earlier ultimatum given will have no place in the next one week. “It is important to state that, with this extension, the Buni-led APC caretaker committee is given an ample opportunity to fix convention date and timetable that will produce new National Executives for our party in November. “We want to authoritatively warn that, if no time table is released within the next seven days, we will have no option than to embark on daily protest to draw attention of Mr. President and party members on the elongation plot that will destroy the party we have labored for,” it added.