MDXi, West Africa’s leading commercial data centre provider has received Tier III Certification on the Design Documents of its new Appolonia Data Centre from Uptime Institute, The Global Data Centre Certifying Authority. A statement from the company explained that the 104-rack facility extends MainOne’s MDXi’s footprint into Ghana to deliver best-in-class data centre uptime and operational performance to meet the rapidly growing demand for Colocation, Managed Hosting and Cloud services in Ghana. It added that the facility will be built and operated with the same operational standards currently in place at MDXi’s premier Data Centre in Lagos, Nigeria which is certified to both the Tier Certification of Design Documents (TCDD) and Tier Certification of Constructed Facility (TCCF). Speaking on the award, Chief Operating Officer, MDXi, Mr. Gbenga Adegbiji, stated “The Appolonia Data Centre has been designed to meet rigorous standards in order to deliver highly secure and reliable infrastructure with multiple layers of redundancy on all critical electrical and mechanical components. This guarantees continuous access/uptime to hosted critical applications and data, improving the overall operational efficiency and profitability of our customers. We have engaged leading MEP and EPC contractors, Sterling & Wilson who are handling the modular mechanical and electrical units, while a team of local partners led by Incept Architectural Consults (IAC) are responsible for the civil, structural, construction and site works. The Acting Country Manager, of MainOne Ghana, Emmanuel Kwarteng, announced that the Appolonia data center further consolidates the company’s investment in infrastructure to enable West Africa’s Digital Economy. He noted that the data center will provide the required infrastructural support for the digital transformation of businesses in Ghana without having to invest scarce Capital and Human resources to build their own infrastructure, thus improving business efficiency and profitability. Speaking on the certification of the Appolonia Data Center design documents, Uptime Institute Chief Technology Officer, Christopher Brown said “We commend MDXi on the award of the Tier III Certification of Design documents for the Appolonia Data Center in Ghana. The certification clearly demonstrates MDXi’s commitment to its customers and unwavering focus on not only designing but building a world class facility that meets the most demanding requirements. This is indeed a significant step in the Tier Classification process, and we look forward to working with them in achieving other certification milestones.” Last month, MainOne announced the successful completion of the Factory Acceptance Test (FAT) for the modular unit for the Appolonia Data Center as all prefabricated and pre-integrated components comply with specification and are operational as designed. The modular units will be shipped to Ghana this month for installation and final integration.