Sunday Ehigiator
Diatom Impact, an impact focused investment and research organisation has continued to support entrepreneurs through its 1Community (IC) program. In a signed statement, the Director, ICommunity, David Thames, he said 1Community (1C) is a community of micro, small and medium scale enterprises (MSMEs), “creating a network effect through training, business support, up-skilling, and funding of entrepreneurs resulting in increased commerce, revenue, job creation, pensions, and tax remittance. “Nigerians are well known for their entrepreneurial drive and passion. According to the World Economic Forum, Africa is increasingly taking its place on the global stage as a continent of growth and opportunity. “Yet a critical challenge remains; particularly the need to create a significant number of jobs for the continent’s booming population, and the need to build a cadre of home-grown business leaders able to access global markets and drive growth in a sustainable and inclusive manner.”
He added: “For this reason, African entrepreneurship is central to Africa’s future prosperity. Creating an enabling environment for businesses to grow and thrive is one of the key drivers of growth in a country like ours. “Diatom Impact is achieving this objective through its impact vehicle, 1Community.
“1C’s 10 years vision regarding entrepreneurship is to invest, train and scale up 1,000,000 micro enterprises into sustainable Small and Medium Scale businesses in Nigeria and Africa.
“Each creating four new jobs; resulting in 4,000,000 new jobs created. This vision can only be achieved through collaboration and partnerships; Diatom Impact is keen to ensure that this vision becomes a reality.” Speaking about Diatom Impact, Thames said the organ was a part of Platform Capital Group.
“It is a research and impact focused organisation focused on five areas critical to economic and social development; health, education, entrepreneurship, gender equality and quality of life.”
Highlighting the work being done by Diatom Impact in the area of entrepreneurship, Chairman, Platform Capital Group, Dr. Akintoye Akindele, noted that “entrepreneurship is key to unlocking the growth potential of the African continent. “With 1C’s approach to business growth and job creation, we will create a massive opportunity for millions of people to support themselves and their family across the continent.”