Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Barely 30 hours after a policeman was allegedly shot dead in a police station in Ekiti State due to an alleged mishandling of firearm, two persons were reportedly shot by cops in Ado Ekiti last Saturday night. One of the victims was said to have died on the spot while the other is presently in a critical situation at the Emergency Unit of the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital (EKSUTH), Ado-Ekiti, the state capital city. The incident happened at a hotel located on Ado-Ikere road when a retired Assistant Inspector General (AIG) of Police allegedly visited the facility. It was rumoured that the victims were shot by one of the police orderlies of the former police top brass. Meanwhile, a policeman was allegedly shot and bled to death last Friday at the Okesa divisional police station during a protest staged by a family of a motorcyclist killed by a driver. The policeman was said to have been shot when his colleagues were dispersing the violent protesters out of the police station to avoid unexpected attack. Recounting the shooting incident in the hotel, an eyewitness said: “The policemen came into the hotel with one retired police officer. They were up to five in number. “They appeared to be in gyration mood in the hotel-they were shooting into the air and creating scene. In the process, two persons were hit by bullets. “The policemen conveyed the victims in their Hilux to the hospital, but they took to their heels moment after dumping the victims.” The police escort Hilux van, which was believed not to belong to the Ekiti State Police Command, was also abandoned since last night by the policemen at the entrance of the EKSUTH emergency unit. Substantiating further how the two men were allegedly shot, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr. Sunday Abutu, said the policeman fingered in the shooting had been arrested and detained at the police headquarters in Ado Ekiti. Abutu added that the policemen allegedly responsible for the heinous crime were not from the Ekiti State Police Command. “We have been able to establish that there was a shooting last Saturday night at one hotel in Ado Ekiti. Two persons were hit and one had died while the other is receiving treatment in the hospital. “The policeman responsible for the shooting had been arrested and he is in our custody presently. “The state Commissioner of Police had ordered a thorough investigation into the shooting, which we have commenced. “We are going to make everything public. Though those involved are not from our command, the incident is within our jurisdiction, and we promise that whoever is found culpable will be prosecuted accordingly,” Abutu said. He said the corpse of the deceased had been deposited in the morgue.