Raheem Akingbolu Budding entrepreneurs and students have been urged to learn from the ‘grass to grace’ business life of Nigerian czar of Advertising, Biodun Shobanjo. Prominent Nigerians, including veteran journalist, Ray Ekpu; Pastor Tunde Bakare, and top industrialist, Chief Dele Fajemirokun, among others, who took turn to eulogise Shobanjo at the unveiling of ‘The Will to Win: The Story of Biodun Shobanjo’, all admitted that what stands the subject matter out among his contemporaries are excellent approach to business and consistency. Ray Ekpu, a former editor of Newswatch, who reviewed the book, said it captures all the sides of the coin as far as Shobanjo is concerned. With reference to the book, Ekpu touched on how Shobanjo conceived and established the Insight Communications and all its subsidiaries. He also made reference to what he described as the up-and-low moments in the business life of Shobanjo. In particular, the book reviewer commended the author, Mr. Dotun Adekambi, a former business editor of The News Magazine, for going the extra mile to present a business book that is readers’ friendly. According to Ekpu, the author injected into the book many literary applications like allusions, styles and jokes to make it appealing to
readers. Fajemirokun, who presented the book, tasked those who could afford to buy and donate to schools and youths, to tap from Shobanjo’s experience. Pastor Bakare, his own, described Shobanjo as an excellent and hardworking man, who has always put his best to anything he believes in. Responding, Shobanjo admitted that he has been able to make history because he was lucky with destiny helpers, who believed in his dream. In particular, the advertising practitioner commended his partner of over 40 years, Mr. Jimi Awosika, for always being there for him. The author of the book, Dotun Adekanmbi, said he was motivated to write the book because he found Shobanjo’s personality and professional accomplishments quite intriguing, particularly because he (Shobanjo) evokes diverse passions in players in his industry.