By Udora Orizu The House of Representatives Committee on Diaspora Affairs has canvassed for the establishment of a Diaspora Remittance Agency that will facilitate a less costly and more efficient remittance process and documentation. The Chairperson of the Committee, Hon. Tolulope Akande-Sadipe, made the call in her goodwill message during the annual general meeting of Nigerians in Diaspora Organization Europe. Sadipe, in a statement by her Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Olamilekan Olusada, posited that the establishment of a remittance arm of business, which will be under Nigeria Diaspora Commission, will drive more remittances to the country. She opined that it is important to ascertain why the impact of recorded huge diaspora remittances is not visible in Nigeria’s economy, stressing that there is need to put measures in place to ensure accountability and transparency for sustainable national growth and development. The lawmaker also said all hands must be on deck for concerted efforts to harness Diaspora remittance potentials towards the development of the nation. She said: ”Nigerians in Diaspora have been a major force for development in the country through remittances, but beyond remittances more importantly, a need for promotion of trade and investments, innovation, knowledge and technology transfers. We need to re-invent and develop strategies on how to mobilise Diaspora remittances and this can be achieved by taking a cue from other countries that have succeeded at it. We all know that the Nigerians living outside the country have as much stake in the present and future of Nigeria as those of us who live here. ”I wish to assure our diaspora citizens of the readiness of the 9th assembly under the leadership of Hon. Femi Gbajabiamilla to partner with all relevant stakeholders in formulating policies that represent sustainable national growth and development. All stakeholders should view the summit as a rare opportunity to engage with one another, exchange ideas on creating a working synergy to leverage on enormous Diaspora potentials in the areas of policies, projects and participation in the nation’s development.”