By Davidson Iriekpen A former Pro-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Dr. Wale Babalakin (SAN), has faulted the claim by the federal government that the Governing Council he chaired was dissolved following the crisis in the institution which led to the sacking and reinstatement of the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe. Babalakin advised the government to update its records because the governing council could not have been dissolved since he had resigned from the council. He drew the attention of the government to the fact that he resigned from the council two months ago before an acting chairman was appointed. Babalakin had in his resignation letter dated September 2020 to the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Dama entitled: ‘Letter of resignation’, said there were too many vested interests in UNILAG case, who were not approaching the issues objectively. The resignation came a few hours after the Special Visitation Panel headed by Prof. Tukur Sa’ad submitted its report to the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu. The senior lawyer in a letter by his Media Adviser and Group Corporate Affairs Manager, Resort International Limited, Mikail Mumuni, was reacting to a statement issued last Wednesday by the Director of Press and Public Relations in the Federal Ministry of Education, Ben Bem Goong. Babalakin’s letter dated November 16, 2020 was obtained by journalists in Abuja yesterday. He said, “Your office announced the dissolution of the Governing Council of the University of Lagos by a press release on Wednesday November 11, 2020 among others. “There is an obvious error in your press release. The Council that was dissolved could not have been the one chaired by Dr. B.O. Babalakin (SAN), as you erroneously stated in your press release since he had resigned his appointment on 17th September, 2020. “This is at least two months before your press release was made. If there was any council to be dissolved at all, it must have been the one chaired by Mr. John Momoh. Please update your records accordingly. Thank You.” Goong had in the statement said, “Mr. President, after careful review of the report has approved all the recommendations of the panel. Accordingly, Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe is hereby reinstated as the Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos. “The Governing Council of the University of Lagos Chaired by Dr. B. O. Babalakin is hereby dissolved. Mr. President hopes these steps will bring peace, stability, focus and direction to the University.”