Rebecca Ejifoma Pneumonia is considered one of the leading causes of death in children under five and adults above age 65. According to research, pneumonia is caused by bacteria, viruses, and fungi, clogging the lungs with pus and fluid making breathing difficult. It is to commemorate the World Pneumonia Day that CribMD, a telemedical solution and digital outreach company in Nigeria, joined other health advocates globally to raise awareness about the deadly disease. Digital outreach company is bent on combating the majority of deaths from the disease are in developing countries, where access to healthcare facilities and treatment is out of reach for many. According to WHO, pneumonia can be spread in a number of ways. The viruses and bacteria that are commonly found in the nose or throat, can infect the lungs if they are inhaled. They may also spread via air-borne droplets from a cough or sneeze. In a press statement issued on Tuesday, the CEO and Founder, CribMD, Ifeanyi Ossai described pneumonia as a deadly disease that takes so many lives however most deaths from the disease can be largely prevented. He said while most healthy people can fight the infection with their natural defenses, children and adults, whose immune systems are compromised, are at higher risk of developing pneumonia. “The immune system may be weakened by malnutrition or undernourishment, especially in infants who are not exclusively breastfed. “Easy access to healthcare and emergency services are also major challenges contributing to the high nos in developing countries like Nigeria,” the CEO added. Ossai cited, “Each year, pneumonia kills more children than AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis combined. And Nigeria has the second-largest burden of the disease after India.” He further hinted that their services at CribMD include doctor house-call, telemedicine, online pharmacy, and healthcare insurance to make it easy for Nigerians to access quality healthcare. In his perspective, “With the uncertainties in recent times, a faster and more reliable way of delivering healthcare has become more pertinent.” “At CribMD, we have created a network of medics who are ready to offer their services in real-time, helping patients access quality healthcare for just a token every month,” he assured Nigerians. CribMD has an online pharmacy and offers health insurance and emergency services. As a telemedical solutions and doctor house-call digital outreach online company that combines modern health strategies and technological expertise to create a digital experience. This is to addresses the challenges of medical health care accessibility by offering low-cost medical services from online to door-step outreach. 