Nigeria’s foremost construction company, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc has emerged “the most valuable brand in the building and construction services category as well as the highest gainer at the 2020 edition of #IAMBRANDNIGERIA’s Top 50 Brands Nigeria.” The development makes it a record fifth consecutive time the company is winning the award at the highly coveted top brands in Nigeria, tagged this year as Top 60 Brands in Nigeria 2020 in commemoration of Nigeria’s Diamond Independence anniversary as announced by the organisers earlier in the beginning of the year. The Chief Executive Officer of Top Brands Nigeria, Mr. Taiwo Oluboyede in his opening remarks at the landmark event, which in due compliance to Covid-19 social distancing protocols, held virtually via the Zoom platform, congratulated Julius Berger Nigeria and other sectoral winners declaring that, “today, these are the best top brands in Nigeria.” According to Oluboyede, to objectively arrive at the Top 50 Brands awardees, the organisers of the event had to “evaluate, rate and celebrate top corporate brands that have consistently maintained leadership positions in their categories. The top brands this year are those that have been able to conceptualise consumer’s decision pattern and present well ‘justifiable’ propositions that meet these needs.” “These brands have been consistent in their proposition and offering over the years and you can easily associate them as leaders in their categories. They have strong and unique value proposition that properly articulates the consumer’s need and passionately work to meeting them. They represent more than their services and have become part of our definitive popular culture.” According to Taiwo, “brand is that thing that makes a consumer choose a product/service over another. It is subliminal and an intangible factor that uniquely distinguishes a leading corporation from the others.” He added that beyond the pricing of a product or service, patronage and choice is often seriously made by the consumer’s experience, as well as the promise of the particular brand, both of which, he said, verifiably define the superior and valuable Julius Berger brand. Oluboyede said that to ensure the necessary and irreducible objectivity of the definitive Top Brands in Nigeria awards, the Brand Strength Measurement (BSM) model of analysis was used both for the nominations, as well as selection of eventual winners in all categories.