Former President Goodluck Jonathan has thanked Nigerians from different walks of life, who visited him on Friday in his Abuja residence to honour him on the occasion of his 63rd birthday. The guests, which included his former aides as well as serving and former Governors from both the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), prayed for him and thanked him for the good things he has continued to do to promote peace and the image of the country since leaving office. Responding to the goodwill messages, Jonathan thanked the visitors for honouring him and commended his wife and other family members for organising the private get-together and for their prayers on his birthday. He said: “This (Friday) morning, I came down at about 6 am and saw people already waiting to pray for me to mark the day. “That means that those people must have woken up from their houses before 5:30 am to be able to get to my house that early. “And since that time up until this (Friday) evening, we have been receiving visitors. “I want to sincerely thank my wife who has put this together and thank all for coming here without any announcement in the newspapers or any form of text messages to invite guests,” Jonathan said. Earlier, former First Lady, Dame Patience Jonathan presented to her husband a customised card she made for the occasion. Reading from the big card, she said, “My husband, my hero, my king, the father of my children. I thank almighty God for choosing you to be my life partner. “Not only are you the most loving husband a woman could ever wish for, but you are also my best friend. “On this special birthday, I want to tell you how much I appreciate you in my life, it has been a blessing making this life journey with you. “If I have to do it again my love, I would choose you to be my husband over and over, you are the best. “To me, you mean the whole world and I love you more than words could ever express. May God bless you always; Happy Birthday.” The numerous guests who visited Jonathan to felicitate with him included Bauchi State Governor Bala Mohammed; Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni; Kebbi State Governor, Atiku Bagudu; Jigawa State Governor, Abubakar Badaru; the Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi; and former Governor of Gombe State Ibrahim Dankwambo.