Adibe Emenyonu in Benin-city No fewer than five persons have been reportedly killed in two days as a result of cult clashes in Edo State. As gathered, the renewed cult clashes resulted from the backlash of the recent jailbreaks in Benin-city, the state capital, during the #EndSARS protests which later turned violent. THISDAY learnt that the clash was between members suspected to belong to Eiye and Aye confraternities, who recently escaped from the Benin-city and Oko Correctional Centres in their continued war of supremacy. The clashes, as further gathered, mostly happened in Upper Sokponba, Ogida and New Benin areas of the ancient city. Yesterday morning, some armed men took over some areas in Upper Sokponba Road, brandishing dangerous weapons and harassing motorists in the near-zero security presence in the state capital, robbing motorists and road users. Two people were reportedly killed in Idogbo, headquarters of Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Area of the state. While one was killed close to a filling station after the Ikpoba-Okha LGA secretariat, another was killed near a popular place called Y-Junction also on the same Sokponba Road. Two other persons, including one said to be a father of four, and another one said to be an escapee from one of the prisons, were also killed near Ogida barracks in Egor LGA, as one person was killed earlier last Wednesday near Constain area of New Benin in Oredo LGA of the state. Last Wednesday, some gunmen took over Siluko Road near Ogida police barrack, brandishing guns and forcing everyone trekking on the road to raise up their hands while several motorists turned back. According to a resident in Upper Sokponba Road yesterday, “We have been living in fear in this area and other parts of the state capital. By 5 to 6 p.m., people would running into their houses because these boys openly brandish their weapons, robbing and harassing people. “This morning (yesterday), two people were killed, which we later learnt belong to rival cult groups.” However, when contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Chidi Nwabuzor, simply said: “We are in a meeting.”