By John Shiklam Seven people have been reported killed following fresh crisis in communities in Jama’a Local Government Area in the southern part of Kaduna State. Four people were injured, two children were said to be missing, while four houses were also said to have been burnt. The incidents, according to a statement on Sunday by the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, occurred on Saturday and Sunday when one Isiyaka Saidu, a herder was killed by unknown persons on Saturday in Ungwan Pah village, Jema’a LGA. The statement said: “The Kaduna State Government has received a report of killing and counter killing in Jema’a Local Government Area of the state. “The state government condemns these attacks and the loss of lives and has directed security agencies to investigate and arrest all persons involved in the criminal actions.” According to Aruwan, the state government received the operational feedback from the military under the auspices of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) highlighting the unfortunate incidents. He said: “Governor Nasir El-Rufai has also directed the military and police to accelerate investigation and ensure diligent prosecution of those responsible for the killing.” “The military on Saturday, 28th November, 2020, reported to the government that one herder, Isiyaka Saidu of Ungwan Pah village of Jema’a LGA, was killed by unknown persons with deep knives cut on his head. “The military further stated that three persons were arrested from Ungwan Pah and Ungwan Bido villages of the same local government area as follows: Victor Markus, Gero David and Thankgod Sunday . “Security agencies have furthered reported that Ungwan Bido village was attacked today, Sunday 29th November, 2020, where some local residents were killed and four injured. Two children are missing. “The six persons killed are: Silas Maman, Malaki TabatGeofree Andrew, Anna Ahmadu, Sunday Tagwai and Fidelis Musa”. The statement added that four people were injured, while two children were missing and four houses were also burnt. The statement said: “The state government had ordered for investigation into the killings and counter killings.” It added that Governor El-Rufai has sent condolences to the families that lost their loved ones and prayed for the repose of their souls; and he has wished those that sustained injuries speedy recovery. The state government appealed to security agencies, traditional rulers and community leaders to continue to work with the state government to sustain the community peace building efforts being supported by the Kaduna State Peace Commission. The state government also directed the state Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) “to as a matter of urgency provide relief materials to citizens whose houses were burnt as well as those injured in the attack”.