By Reno Omokri To my mind, the greatest challenge in the Body of Christ today is that many Christians have created their own mental God, who is so pliable that rather than tell them how to serve Him, they tell their mental God how they want to serve Him. They have fashioned a homemade God, not a holy God. So many objects, beliefs, practices, and holidays in today’s Christendom come from various pagan gods and practices. However, when you point this out to contemporary Christians, they will come up with mental, philosophical, emotional and esoteric arguments to support these practices. But, one thing they hardly ever use to defend these extra-Christian practices is Scripture. For instance, some Christian denominations make images and statues of beings purported to be Christ, His mother, Mary, and of various other saints from Scripture. We do not know how any of these People looked. These statues may even be patterned after demons. How do we know? What we do know is that Scripture warns us thus, “You shall not make for yourself a carved image—any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth”-Exodus 20:4. Now, how can you read the above and then still go and pray before an idol that is tagged ‘Jesus’, or Mary, or any of the saints? What does Satan crave the most? We see it in Matthew 4:9 when Satan told Yeshua (Jesus’ actual Name) “All these things will I give you, if you will fall down and worship me.” Satan’s greatest desire is to be worshipped! Now, Scripture is unequivocal; we should not make any idol of anybody or thing in heaven, on Earth, and under the Earth. So, making a statue and calling it a statue of Christ, Mary, or any number of saints is against the express directives of God because Exodus 20:4 was dictated to Moses by God Himself. That is one point. The other point is that nobody on Earth knows what Christ looks like. So, if someone made a statue of Satan and tags it as that of Christ, and asks you to pray to it, what you are in essence doing is worshipping Satan. And we read in Scripture that Satan has a favourite pastime. He likes to pretend to be God. 1 Peter 5:8 warns us to “be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour.” Now, we know that Christ is described as “the Lion of the tribe of Judah.” So, we see that 1 Peter 5:8 is what we call a simile in English literature—comparing one thing to the other. In essence, what this simile is telling us in 1 Peter 5:8 is that Satan likes to pretend to be Christ to deceive people to offer worship to God through him. This is corroborated in 2 Corinthians 11:14 which reads “no marvel; for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light.” I urge my readers to take note of those words ‘angel of light’. As some of my readers know, I read Scripture in the original language. That verse in the original koine Greek used the term ‘angelon phōtos’, meaning angel of light. The word Lucifer is used to describe Satan in the New Testament. So, while the term ‘angelon phōtos’ is Greek for angel of light, what is the modern English translation of Lucifer? Lucifer literally means Light Ferrier or Carrier. It is made up of two words, Lucis, meaning light, from which we get the modern English word, Lucid (something that is clear). The other Latin word is Fere, meaning to carry, from which we get the modern English word Ferry, which means to carry, usually over water. So, we have now established that Lucifer means Light Carrier. If you doubt me, you can research it yourself. Now, turn your mind to the Statue of Liberty, which was a gift from the people of France (of which many of the leaders involved in this ‘gift’ were Freemasons) to the people of America in 1886. Now, what is the depiction of the so-called Statue of Liberty? It is the statue of a colossal man carrying an enormous light. Now, let me shock you. Or maybe I do not surprise you. But, the real name of the Statue of Liberty is not actually the Statue of Liberty. The official name of the Statue of Liberty is ‘Liberty Enlightening the World’. Please do not take my word for it. Research it. Now, what does Scripture say about Satan? 1 John 5:19 reads “the whole world is under the control of the evil one.” Read that verse and think about it, then think about the statue officially known as Liberty Enlightening the World. Satan is a master of deception. He hides in plain sight, and corrupts the world and the true worship of God by passing himself off as either God, or His Son Yeshua. Which is why I urge every person who follows Yeshua Hamashiach (whom some refer to as Jesus Christ), not to follow or believe me, nor to follow or believe any man, nor to follow or believe any church, but to follow and believe Scripture. No matter what any sleek talking man says, please do not deviate from Scripture. Do not celebrate holidays that are unscriptural, or follow practices that have no origin in Scripture, even if they purport to honour, glorify, or celebrate God or His Son. We must remember what Samuel told Saul in 1 Samuel 15:22 “Has the LORD as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the LORD? Behold, to OBEY is better than SACRIFICE.” All that God called us to do is to obey Him. Simple! Avoid people who say that if you must strictly obey Scripture, then you must not use social media, or drive cars, or fit in planes or partake in modernity. Satan is speaking through such people. The content is what is holy, not the form. When God spoke to Moses, His words were written in stone-Exodus 31:18. When he spoke to John, the words were written in Scrolls-Revelations 5:2. God does not mind when we modernise our vehicles, means of communications, or even our clothes. Those things are not holy, so they are subject to change. However, our God is Holy. And a Holy God, Scripture, Holidays, and Articles of Faith are not subject to change. If you like, you insult me. I have done what my conscience directed me to do. Glory to the One and Only unchangeable God, who said “I am the LORD, I change not.”-Malachi 3:6. Reno’s Nugget Make money, so when you see human suffering, you won’t need to pray, you will just pay. Be like the Good Samaritan. When he saw the man attacked by robbers, he didn’t pray. He paid. In your time of need, you need payer warriors, not prayer warriors! Study the Good Samaritan. What did he have that separated him from others? 2 things. Money and compassion. If you want to be good in this world, you must have money and compassion. Compassion without money is like a car without fuel! Going NOWHERE! Money gives effect to your kindness #FreeLeahSharibu #RenosNuggets.