High Life It’s been a few days since the Lekki Toll Gate shooting, and the ripples continue to spread farther than anybody imagined. For many people, life continues. For others, October 20, 2020 is the day things began to really fall apart. But for the intervention and backing of certain individuals, Tinubu might have fallen into the second category. It is no secret that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu commands a respectable stake in many flourishing enterprises in Lagos, including The Nation newspaper and TVC Communications. With allegations positioning Tinubu as being responsible for the alleged shoot-out, it was no surprise that these flourishing enterprises were the target of vandals. Beyond the loss of properties, Tinubu has been the object of many-fanged criticisms. Following the notorious WhatsApp chat alleging that Tinubu sanctioned the shoot-out, Asiwaju’s reputation was sullied beyond recognition. Currently, public figures have begun to speak up regarding Tinubu’s blamelessness in the matter. It is noteworthy that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu was amongst the first—when the allegations started piling up—to host Tinubu at his residence. From the Government House, Tinubu was able to defend himself, consoling families that are affected, and promising—on the integrity of Governor Sanwo-Olu—that justice will be served. The Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has also taken a firm position either to hold Tinubu responsible or thoroughly investigate the shooting. Insiders reported that the speaker is on the side of Tinubu, and is convinced that there are insidious elements at work that are interested in making the statesman the fall guy. A host of others have also rallied behind Tinubu, some of whom have openly maintained that he is in no way involved the shooting incident, or the skewed politicking that led to it. Senator Solomon Olamilekan Adeola (Yayi) has allegedly also taken a stand by Asiwaju Tinubu. The 2023 presidential election is just around the corner whether or not the allegations against Tinubu will bear some fruit before then remains to be seen. In the meantime, the statesman is not as caged as his detractors would have him—not with his men and brethren around him.