The much-anticipated biography of Nigeria’s foremost marketing communications practitioner and Chairman of Troyka Holdings, Dr Biodun Olusina Shobanjo has been slated for public presentation in Lagos on Thursday, November 26, 2020. The book titled, ‘The Will To Win: The Story of Biodun Shobanjo,’ is written by Mr. Dotun Adekanmbi, an award-winning business journalist and accomplished public relations practitioner. Distinguished boardroom guru and diplomat, Ambassador Christopher Kolade, will chair the launch while renowned African entrepreneur, Chief Dele Fajemirokun, is the Chief presenter of the book. Veteran journalist, Mr. Ray Ekpu, will review the biography during the launch. The Will To Win: The Story of Biodun Shobanjo is the first authoritative biography on the guru of advertising who at various times had been conferred with high honours including Doctor of Letters (D.Litt Honoris Causa) by the Obafemi Awolowo University; Advertising Man of All Time by The Sun newspapers and Most Influential Personality in Advertising in Africa by Africa Development Magazine, Ghana. The book chronicles the trajectory of Shobanjo’s career right from his humble beginning as a Studio Manager in then Nigerian Broadcasting Corporation (NBC) now Radio Nigeria to his days at Grant Advertising Ltd, an American-Nigerian agency; his foray into entrepreneurship when he co-founded Insight Communications in 1980 and his days as a daring creative innovator in the marketing communications industry till date. Author of the book, Dotun Adekanmbi, said: “I was motivated to write this book because I found Dr. Shobanjo’s personality and professional accomplishments quite intriguing, particularly because he evokes diverse passions in players in his industry. My determination to unravel the myths that surround him prompted my proposal to write The Will To Win: The Story of Biodun Shobanjo. His willingness to share his professional worldview with young practitioners and people in search of knowledge is what is now being presented to the public.”