For its continued investment in digital innovation, Africa’s largest retail bank, Access Bank PLC, has been recognized as the ‘Best Digital Bank in Africa’ by the Asian Banker. The announcement was made at the Asian Banker Middle East and Africa Regional 2020 Awards virtual ceremony. Access Bank, over the years, has leveraged technology including advanced analytics, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, machine learning and robotics process automation to reform business operations and drive performance. Speaking on the award, the Chief Executive Officer of Access Bank PLC, Herbert Wigwe, said: “We are delighted to receive this award, which recognizes our contribution towards revolutionizing the practice of digital banking in Africa. “This award serves as an encouragement for us to consolidate our efforts towards becoming a truly digitally-led bank. We always ensure that customers enjoy secure, seamless and convenient services across multiple channels.” Access Bank has invested heavily in leading technological evolution in the African banking sector through its strategic partnership with the Africa Fintech Foundry to nurture the next generation of innovative Fintech startups. The Bank has also employed the use of technology to help achieve its sustainability targets. It has developed a portal that helps to monitor its environmental footprint, especially its carbon emissions. According to Access Bank’s Executive Director, Information Technology and Operations, Ade Bajomo, “The peculiarities of the global community today, have called for more digitally-driven banking services. Through our multiple offerings including our USSD *901#, advanced mobile banking application ‘Access More’ and our recently unveiled facial biometric payment solution, Access Bank has continued to offer best-in-class technology-driven solutions to all customers. Access Bank will continue to defy the negative stereotypes attributed to Africa, and make strides towards becoming ‘Africa’s gateway to the world’.” Just recently, Bajomo was appointed the new President of the FinTech Association of Nigeria (FintechNGR). This further buttresses the bank’s thought leadership in digital transformation, use of advanced analytics, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, machine learning and robotics process automation to sustain banking and improve customer experience.