Poise Nigeria and EkoBits Academy in partnership with Oxfam, have transformed the lives of 37 more Nigerian youths from different underserve communities around Lekki-Ajah axis.
The youths had ICT and soft skills training for 12 months, where they learnt graphic design, web design and development, photography, video editing and soft skills that will make them employable and keep them on their jobs. Recently, all 37 youths from Jakande, Ikota, Ajiran, Awoyaya and Ikate communities graduated from the academy, and the graduation took place at Poise training school, where parents of the youths, alumni of the academy and invited guest attended. One of the guest speakers at the graduation ceremony, who is an alumnus of Poise Graduate Finishing Academy and currently a people centric Product Manager at Descasio Limited, Mrs. Bunmi Malik, spoke to the graduating students on a topic ‘Get More Out of Now.’ She advised them not to stop at just the skill they learnt but should explore opportunities around them and learn more. Also, another guest speaker, the COO of Poise Nigeria, Mrs. Nonye Calli-Bechi, motivated the graduates with an insightful speech, and laid emphasis on dedication. Awards were presented to; Mr. Oversenri Emmanuel as the Overall Best Graduating Student, Miss. Adedoyin Favour as the Best Graduating Female Student, Mr. Degbor Johnson as the Best Web Developer, Mr. Opeyo Michael as the Best Graphics Designer and Mr. Oduola Tolulope as Mr. Congeniality, an award that was presented in recognition of his soft skills. Some of the training skills include TechforWomen; TechJobs; Career Kickstart; Data Science and Entrepreneurship skills.
TechforWomen is an intervention programme aimed at giving young women an access to education and a career in ICT, enabling them to provide a sustainable future for themselves while pursuing a meaningful career. The targets are young girls, women with disabilities, school dropout, within the ages of 15 – 25 years from underprivileged communities, youths who are victims of gender based violence, domestic violence, Sexual harassment/abuse, among others. TechJobs is an advanced software development training to get young African software developers bridge the employability gap. It is a six-month programme, powered by Poise Nigeria and EkoBits in partnership with Tunga. The training targets junior software developer aspiring to work for international tech companies.
Career Kickstart is a three-week intensive programme on employability and entrepreneurship skills training in Lagos, Edo and Nasarawa State.
The programme is designed to bridge the knowledge acquired from the institution and the demand and skills set required at the workplace.