Tosin Clegg Hayat Kimya, producers of MOLFIX diaper has announced actress, Funke Akindele-Bello as its first ever brand ambassador. The MOLFIX brand ambassador is a mum, an actress and producer known for playing the iconic role of ‘Jenifa’, a series that won the hearts of Nigerians worldwide.
A statement from the company said, “With a dynamic and successful career spanning over twenty years, she fully embodies the heart and values of the brand.” Funke was undeniably excited as she signed up with the Molfix family.
Speaking on becoming a part of the brand she said, “Motherhood is a joyous experience, but it also comes with some levels of anxiety, as we all want the best for our children. Being a mother, my children’s comfort is of utmost importance. For my babies, I wanted a diaper I was sure would be good for their delicate skin, and also protect them from the nightmare that is nappy rash. I found MOLFIX to be the best in the market, giving me great peace of mind, knowing I had one less thing to worry about. Because, we all know we mothers can worry. So it is with great joy that I welcome the opportunity to be the first ever brand ambassador of MOLFIX in Nigeria.” The Managing director, Hayat Kimya Nigeria, Mr. Doruk Emiroglu said, “MOLFIX is our flagship brand and has made us proud over the years hence, we have decided to continuously ensure that our Nigerian consumers are better engaged and catered for. We believe that bringing our new Brand ambassador on board will help us deliver better value to the consumers as Funke Akindele-Bello is a real mum and will strongly represent the interest of the Number one Mums of Nigeria”. The Head of Marketing, Hayat Kimya, Roseline Abaraonye, said, “We are committed to doing more for mothers in Nigeria and we are proud to have Funke join the MOLFIX family. Funke is an amazing mother, a successful actress, producer and entrepreneur who fully understands what it means to wear so many hats like most Nigerian mothers who are active multitaskers. It is important we give our mother’s one less thing to worry about concerning their children. We want them to feel confident and experience 100 percent peace of mind which our diapers, Pull- up Pants & wet wipes guarantee.”