Femi Solaja
Multichoice Nigeria has announced that it is set to entertain subscribers during the festive season with its array of entertaining content across different channels on DStv and GOtv, as well as special price offers.
The company disclosed this during a recent event in Lagos. MultiChoice Nigeria also disclosed beginning from today, it would provide new DStv customers with an opportunity to get DStv HD decoder Dish + 1-month Compact subscription for N18,600, while the GOtv decoder + GOtenna + 1-month Jolli will go for N8,400, to all new customers. Speaking at the event, the Chief Executive Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria, John Ugbe said: “As we get closer to the Festive Season we keep all customers at the heart of everything we do. And that explains why we have an amazing line up of content on DStv and GOtv to bring families together, to strengthen the bond between them and showcase some of the most exciting and entertaining programmes that reflects who we are as Africans and indeed, as Nigerians. “Our contents are local and original, steep in our culture, values and traditions and there’s no better time to give these content to our subscribers than now.” Some of the contents lined up on DStv customers can look forward to during the festive season include the European football league season live include: Man United Vs Man City on Saturday 12 December, Liverpool vs Spurs on Wednesday 16 December, Chelsea Vs Arsenal on Saturday 26 December and Chelsea Vs Man City on Saturday 2 January, in La Liga, there is the Real Madrid Vs Atletico Madrid taking place on the 13 of December football games, all available on the SuperSport channel. While on Formula 1, Bahrain and Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, will be available to entertain subscribers on the 29 November and 13 December, respectively, and Basketball lovers can look forward to the NBA as it returns on ESPN. “GOtv Sports fans can also look forward to an exciting festive season with LIVE football action from La Liga featuring the Atletico Madrid and Barcelona on Saturday, 21 November on SS La Liga; the 21st edition of GOtv Boxing Night on Friday, 27 November on SS Select 2; WWE Survivor Series on Sunday, 29 November on SS Select 2; Kardashian Kristmas special on E! Entertainment; BET offers a week of Christmas movies from 21 to 27 December; TNT Christmas Day special with The Best Man and The Best Man holiday movies “The kids are also not left out as more fun awaits them with a whole lot of animated content on the Kidz Klub Festival on M-Net Movies 4 plus holiday stunts on Cartoon Network, Da Vinci and Nickelodeon. MultiChoice Nigeria wants everyone to be part of the DStv and GOtv family this festive season and celebrate valuable moments together with friends and family. The Festive Season Offer is valid from 21 November 2020 up until 13 January 2021.”