Abduct eight ABU students By John Shiklam Eleven people have been reportedly killed while several others were said to have been injured when gunmen invaded Albasu village, Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State. This came as students of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, are said to be in captivity following the attacks on motorists along the Kaduna-Abuja road on Sunday. The hoodlums said to have been in large number, were said to have attacked the village at about 1p.m. yesterday. They were said to have opened fire on the villagers as they shot in different directions. Eleven people were said to have been killed during the indiscriminate shooting. Cows belonging to the villagers were said to have been rustled. The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs,Samuel Aruwan, who confirmed the incident in a statement, said security agencies were pursuing the bandits with a view to apprehending them. According to him, the bandits had earlier on Sunday abducted two people and killed one at Maraban Kajuru in Kajuru Local Government Area. According to him, the state Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, has sent condolences to the families of the victims and prayed for the repose of their souls. Meanwhile, eight students of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, were said to be abducted on Sunday following the attack on motorists along the Kaduna-Abuja road. Many people were reportedly abducted during the incident during which two people were said to have been killed by the bandits. Police sources said yesterday night that the Vice Chancellor of ABU, Prof. Kabiru Bala, reported the abduction of the students to the Zaria Area Command of the police. It was gathered that the 300 students from the Department of French, were travelling on Sunday to Lagos for a programme at the Nigerian French Language Village (NFLV), when the bandits struck. “The Vice Chancellor of ABU, Zaria, reported to the Zaria Area Command that eight students of the French Department were kidnapped. “The names of the students are: Okafor Chris, Ayuba Lois, John Elizabeth, Musa Precious, Asoji Faith, Badmus Jemimah, Emmanuel Simon and Aliyu Adamu” the source said. It was gathered two of the students were among the 11 people who were also abducted but were said to have been rescued by security personnel on Sunday. The source said efforts were being made to rescue the students.