Ugo Aliogo
Geely Holding Group Executives and subsidiary brands have won accolades at the 2020 Autocar Awards, where automotive industry achievements from the past 12 months and outstanding career achievements were recognized.
In a statement, Geely Holding’s Executive Vice President of Design, Peter Horbury, was awarded the Autocar Lifetime Achievement award. The statement said the Chief Executive Officer, Volvo Cars, Hakan Samuelson, received Autocar’s top award – the Issigonis Trophy, while Volvo’s subsidiary, Polestar, was awarded the 2020 Game Changer award.
It stated that Horbury’s Lifetime Award reflects more than 50 years of dedication to design at leading automotive brands, where he helped develop some of the industry’s iconic cars. According to the statement: “During his tenure at Volvo Cars in the 1990s, Peter was credited with introducing new sleek design – an approach he extended after the Swedish company was acquired by Geely Holding in 2010. “At Geely Holding, Peter oversaw the growth of Geely Auto’s global design function which has now grown to five studios in Europe, America, China and south East Asia with more than 1000 members of staff. With a new confident, Chinese inspired but internationally focused design language, Geely Auto has seen its sales triple over the last eight years. “The Lynk and Co-brand, a premium brand positioned between Geely Auto and Volvo Cars was also developed by Peter Horbury’s team in Sweden alongside Geely’s engineering unit, CEVT, and unveiled for the first time in late 2016 before going on sale in China in 2017, where the brand has sold over 300,000 units to date.” The statement remarked that Hakan Samuelson was awarded the Issigonis Trophy for the major impact that he has had on Volvo Cars over the past eight years.
The statement hinted that Samuelson had overseen major growth at Volvo Cars during his tenure as CEO with growing global sales, “an expanded manufacturing footprint in China and the United States, and fully committing to electrifying the Volvo range.” The statement further explained that Polestar 1, uses Geely holding’s most advanced drivetrain to date that utilizes a 2.0 turbocharged and supercharged engine, “which is mated to an electric powertrain that offers up to 124km of electric range and can produce a combined 609BHP and 1000Nm (738lb–ft) of torque.” In his remarks, the Chairman of Geely Holding, Li Shufu said: “The recognition that we have received from Autocar are the results of more than two decades of continuous internationalisation at Geely Holding, where we have focused on developing our internal talent and bringing the best products and services to the consumers.”