Chuks Okocha in Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (PDP) were locked in a spat yesterday over a visit to former President Goodluck Jonathan by some APC governors. The Chairman of APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee and Governor of Yobe State, Mr. Mala Buni, had last week led the APC delegation to visit the former president to celebrate with him on his 63rd birthday. While the PDP said the visit had further affirmed that Nigeria, as a nation, is better under the PDP, the ruling party countered that the main opposition party was rattled and disoriented by the visit to the former president.
The PDP also likened the visit of the APC governors to Jonathan to an open apology to the PDP and Nigerians for APC maladministration and mismanagement of the economy. The PDP described the visit as an endorsement of the acceptability of its administration, adding that it indicated that the APC, in 2015, only created artificial symbols of misgovernance, corruption and other alleged misgivings just to discredit the PDP and grab power to achieve their selfish desires. In a statement by the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, the party said it is evident that the Jonathan administration succeeded in office basically because the PDP understands the nuances of the nation, which it translated into people-oriented policies and programmes, in line with the manifesto of the party, to make life comfortable for Nigerians.
It said: “This visit to Jonathan by the APC governors is a direct acceptance of the successes recorded by our party in building a strong nation with a virile economy that was rated as one of the fastest-growing economies of the world. “The visit is, therefore, a subtle step by APC governors into the corridors of the PDP in agreement that our party holds the solution to the myriads of problems brought to our nation by their APC and President Muhammadu Buhari.”
The PDP added that it viewed and received the visit by APC governors as an apology by the APC to it and Nigerians over the lies, beguilements and other irresponsible allegations deployed by the APC to grab power, only to lead the nation on a journey to nowhere. “We therefore caution Nigerians to be watchful of the antics of the APC that have failed in governance and the management of its own affairs.
“For us in the PDP, the unity, stability, progress and development of our dear nation remain paramount and as such, we will not allow the failed APC and its pranksters, who have betrayed the trust of Nigerians, to mislead them once again.” But in a swift reaction, the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Yekini Nabena, in a statement, yesterday, said the APC would continue to consolidate on its national appeal and acceptance.
“At a time when the PDP and its leadership is grappling with a crisis of confidence, one would expect the failed opposition to focus on picking itself up,” he stated.