•Dispatches Gambari, others to states
•Govs move against restiveness, seek support for security personnel Chuks Okocha and Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday enlisted the support of traditional rulers to forge a national approach towards tackling the grievances the youths presented to the federal government during the #EndSARS protests. He also mandated his Chief of Staff, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, to lead senior government officials to various parts of the country to engage stakeholders as part of the efforts to address the concerns raised by #EndSARS protesters. Besides, the 36 states’ governors have agreed to engage traditional rulers, religious leaders and civil society organisations to support security personnel, promising to adopt the guidelines to be developed by the National Economic Council (NEC) sub-committee to reduce youth restiveness. Buhari urged traditional rulers nationwide to assist his administration in pacifying the protesting youths, saying he has heard their cries and is attending to their concerns.
The president requested the support of the traditional rulers yesterday when he received a delegation of the National Council of Traditional Rulers of Nigeria, led by the Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar III, at the State House in Abuja. Buhari, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, told the royal fathers: “We have heard the loud cries of our youth and children and we are attending to their concerns.”
He, however, stressed: “To succeed in all of this, we would require your support and voice to help amplify the message. Your proximity to the people places you in a unique position to communicate and ensure that our response is targeted and impactful.” The president described the roles of the traditional rulers “as guardians of our traditional values and culture” and urged them not to compromise their neutrality “because this is what significantly confers on you your moral authority and legitimacy.”
According to him, Gambari will lead senior government officials to various parts of the country “and directly engage with you as part of this process. He will be reporting back to me on your various perspectives. “I want to once again thank you for the role you all have played to calm down our youth with wisdom and authority. By instilling hope and keeping the peace, you have rendered the country great service.”
While warning that “we cannot allow anybody or group to threaten the peace or sabotage these efforts,” the president said “strong, transparent efforts are underway to address those rogue elements of the Nigerian Police Force. “Simultaneously, the Nigerian Police Force will also undergo much-needed reform that covers welfare, working conditions, and code of conduct. That will usher in a more professional workforce,” he added.
Buhari acknowledged the important role of the monarchs in maintaining peace and security in the country, and expressed delight at their visit “given all that has happened recently in our country.” While receiving the recommendations of the traditional rulers, he promised to study them and take appropriate action.
Buhari had earlier drawn the attention of the delegation to the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic on the world. “We find ourselves in very turbulent times, with a global health pandemic that has been incredibly challenging. Economies have been crippled as the response to the pandemic has forced businesses to shut down or devise new means of transacting. For a country like ours, with a large informal economy, our citizens have been particularly hit,” he stated. He, however, added that his administration has “designed various schemes and taken many measures to soften the impact, despite our own revenue struggles as government,” while recognising that “more needs to be done to cater to our fellow citizens, not just those in the urban areas but also those in rural areas.” According to Buhari, “I am also fully aware that our strong farming belts have been impacted by floods. While we have seen record levels of farm outputs and increased level of fertiliser utilisation, government, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and its agencies, is working on how to help bring these farmers some relief.” The president also admitted the enormity of the challenges, saying that “there is no hiding place regarding how we should address insecurity concerns, youth unemployment, job creation, boosting industrialisation and preparing for a transition into a digital economy.” Remarks were made by the Sultan of Sokoto and the Ooni of Ife, His Royal Majesty Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, while two foremost traditional rulers representing each geo-political zone also attended the meeting. Govs Move against Youth Restiveness, Seek Support for Security Personnel The 36 states’ governors have agreed to engage traditional rulers, religious leaders and civil society organisations to support security personnel, promising to adopt the guidelines to be developed by the National Economic Council (NEC) sub-committee to reduce restiveness among the youth. This was one of the resolutions reached at a meeting of the governors as contained in a communiqué signed by the Chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi.
The governors said they deliberated on issues affecting the country, particularly on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the fallout of the #EndSARS protests. They expressed concern that as a result of the #EndSARS protests and the violence that followed, most security personnel refused to return to their duty posts.
The governors resolved to engage with traditional, religious and civil society organisations to drive a common agenda and generate the required support for security personnel who play a vital role in ensuring the safety and wellbeing of all Nigerians. They also resolved to “adapt at both the state and regional levels guidelines to be developed and issued by the National Economic Council (NEC) Sub-committee on engagement to reduce restiveness among young people as it is clear that these agitations are attributable to social and economic inequality in the country.” The governors also resolved to commend CACOVID for presenting the true situation of what transpired in the light of the unfortunate misperception that attended the distribution of palliatives at the state level.
They resolved that the NGF chair should work with the CACOVID chairperson to address the media in addition to members speaking up in their local settings. The governors further resolved to educate the citizenry about the various palliatives provided by the states, including cash transfers, food items, medical supplies and tax incentives given to individual taxpayers and businesses. The governors resolved to direct their commissioners for finance to sign agreements with the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning to give effect to the principles and objectives of the programme in their states.
They said the security situation in the country remains a priority agenda for them. The communiqué adopted the resolution for the NGF to partner with the Nigerian Stock Exchange to organise a virtual event on the 17th of November 2020 with the support of the Nigerian Investment Promotion Council (NIPC) and other strategic partners in the country’s infrastructure financing space. It said the governors also received updates and presentations from the Chairman of the Northern Governors’ Forum and Governor of Plateau State, Hon. Simon Lalong, who provided a brief on steps taken by the governors of the 19 northern states to address the fallout of the #EndSARS protests. The Vice-Chairman of the forum and Governor of Sokoto State, Hon. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, provided an update on the work of the National Economic Council Sub-committee mandated to engage with youths, civil society organisations, religious, political and traditional leaders with the objective of framing a new security and stability architecture for the country. The Governor of Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, who is chairman of the NGF Sub-Committee interfacing with the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 raised concerns about the current low testing numbers in the country, especially in the light of the resurgence of COVID-19 cases globally. The governors, the communiqué said, were urged to increase their testing capacity in all local governments to help prevent a second wave of the pandemic in the country flowing from imported cases from abroad.
The Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, also provided an update on the status of the World Bank’s State Fiscal Transparency, Accountability and Sustainability (SFTAS) programme.