The Inspector General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has urged officers and men of the Force to use their firearms for self-defence, not to kill. Adamu, who arrived at Ogun Command Headquarters, Eleweran in a Police Chopper yesterday, also advised them to be professional always while performing their duties. The police IG was received by the Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) Zone 2, Ahmed Iliyasu, Deputy Inspector General, South-west, Leye Oyebade and Commissioner of Police Edward Ajogun. Addressing men and officers of the command, Adamu enjoined them to be “courageous, firm and professional” in discharging their duty. He assured they will not only enjoy health insurance while in active service but also in their retirements. He said: “Don’t be discouraged, come out in full and perform your duties, nobody can do it, it is your constitutional responsibility and you must do it. No amount of intimidation can prevent us from doing our job. “Nobody can demoralise us, nobody can prevent or make us shy away from performing our duties. The responsibility of protecting lives and property is given to the police and you are licensed to carry arms. “We are encouraging you to go out there and perform your duties without fear or favour and without being afraid of any victimisation. “Be courageous, be civil and be calm and follow the procedures in performing your duties. “Your arms are supposed to be used to protect lives and property. Constitutionally when there is violence protest, the constitution allows you to use your firearm, when individuals or group of people are unlawful, you are allowed to use your firearm. “In defence of yourself and you have no other means to escape from any attack, you are allowed to use your firearm but you are not allowed to kill. As police officers you are not allowed to kill, when you use your firearm you are supposed to maim. “You should not shy away from using your firearms for these purposes but don’t kill. “If in the process of performing your duties, a mistake comes up, and we know that you followed all the necessary procedures, we shall be behind you, we shall support and make sure that you are not molested.”