By John Shiklam The Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, has said that recent happenings in the country has provided an opportunity to redesign the security architecture between the states and the federal government. He stated this during a meeting of state governors and traditional rulers in the north with members of the National Assembly, senior federal government officials and heads of security agencies, on Monday at the Government House, Kaduna. According to him, the time has come to consider the establishment of state police as part of the policing reforms. “Is it not time to make the establishment of state police a key part of policing reforms? “Has the recent crisis not exposed again the inadequacy of the numbers, ordinance, training and unitary structure of the police in a federation?” He asked. He said the events that followed after the EndSARS protest were more than challenging moments for the country. “In our view, it is an understatement to describe the last few weeks as challenging moments for our country. “A cry by the youths for reform of policing has somehow snowballed into tragic events and a challenge to the authority of the Nigerian State,” he said. According to him, “The economic damage from the recent tragic events is sure to exacerbate the shrinkage unleashed by Covid-19, with severe impact on jobs and livelihoods. “The crisis has also exposed the ascent in public discourse of a new sort of relativity that is able to justify anything. “Many of the northern states are confronting a variety of security challenges. Criminal activities by bandits threaten both rural and urban communities. “Bandits have openly tried to crush the rural economy by attacking farmers in their fields and in their homes. “We welcome the intensification of ground and air action against the bandits, and thank the Chief of Defence Staff, the Chief of Army Staff, the Chief of Naval Staff, the Chief of the Air Staff, and the Inspector-General of Police for these operations. “Is it not time to make the establishment of state police a key part of policing reforms? “Has the recent crisis not exposed again the inadequacy of the numbers, ordinance, training and unitary structure of the police in a federation? “Is this not an opportunity for a redesign of the security architecture in a collaboration between the states and the national government to vastly expand police numbers, equipment and technology? “As we deliberate today, it is our hope that the discussions will reflect on the specific impact of recent events on our region and what we can do to mitigate the damage and press forward in securing our communities and advancing social and economic development.”