By Daji Sani Managing Director of the North East Development Commission (NEDC), Alhaji Mohammed Alkali, said the adverse effects of Insurgency on youths had made the North East a breeding ground for crimes and drug abuse. Alkali disclosed this over the weekend at the Youths sensitization programme organized by Jakadiya Trust Foundation held at the Emir’s palace in Mubi, Adamawa state. In his words, “The youths in Mubi like all youths across the North East region have been adversely affected by the Insurgency in which schools, businesses and sources of livelihoods were destroyed and schooling disrupted. This has made the Mubi and its environs a breeding ground for crimes and drug abuse.” The MD who was represented by the Head of Education, NEDC, Fatima Ciroma, said that was why we need to enlighten our youths of the dangers of drug abuse and provide them with opportunities to make a better life for themselves. He said the NEDC wishes to encourage the emirate and the Adamawa state government to prioritized Youth Empowerment for a better society. ” Young people are the backbone of every society, their participation in all aspects of societal activities is very important. Unfortunately many of our youths are being deprived of this. He said. He said isolating young people intentionally or unintentionally, especially the rural areas when they are jobless can contribute to the already mentioned menaces of drugs abuse, illegal and criminal activities, depression, Rural/Urban migration. The MD proposed some mechanism to make the youths positive contributors to our society such as conducting entrepreneurship training and capacity buildings in areas such as leadership , advocacy, gender awareness, communication and life skills Among others are community awareness regarding the importance of education and knowledge, Sensitizing parents to support their children to complete their studies, follow up to encourage them to achieve their dreams and foster their roles in the society, listen to their ideas and suggestions. He said the implication of empowering , strengthening and including young people in the work environment was that it will reduce unemployment, crimes and drug abuse. The MD also commended Jakadiya Trust Foundation for this initiatives and encouraged them not to relent in their intervention towards sensitization and empowerment. He said he will continue to pursue its vision for the north east adding that recently 400 youths are undergoing training in various acquisition skills at NEDC’s ICT resources centre at Federal College Of Education, Yola. The State Commander of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency ( NDLEA) , Alhaji Idris Mohammed Bello, who talked on the Dangers of Substance Abuse at event, asserted that the consumption of illicit substance by youths had array of health and social implications on the users themselves, their family members, friends and their immediate community. He said drug abuse was a burden on all of us as a nation adding we are all impacted directly and indirectly. Also speaking at the events, the chairman of Jakadiya Trust Foundation, Prof. Ladi Hamalai, said the events were meant to encourage education and fight against Drugs Abuse among youths in Mubi. The prof who hails from Mubi Emirates which comprises of Mubi North , Mubi South, Miaha, Michika, Madagali LGAs mostly affected by the Insurgency said it was necessary to encourage education and enlighten the youths on the dangers of drug abuse in area. She said because of the effects of the Insurgency which led to the destruction schools and facilities, they decided to present instruction materials and text books to all public schools of the Emirate. The Emir of Mubi, Alhaji Abubakar Isah, called on prominent sons and daughters of Mubi to emulate the founder and chairman of Jakadiya Trust Foundation, Prof Ladi Hamalai, for her good gestures towards the youths. He said the youths are the backbone of any society and needed to be taken seriously. However the principal who received the learning and teaching materials on behalf of other principals ,of Emirates Mr Joseph Musa said the gesture was a good one and promised to use them judiciously.