Francis Sardauna in Katsina The Nigerian Army yesterday said its troops of Operation Sahel Sanity, deployed to ward off banditry and kidnapping in North-west, have killed five bandits and lost a soldier during a gun duel with the hoodlums in Diskiru village of Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State. The acting Director of Defence Media Operations, Brig.Gen. Benard Onyeuko, in a statement issued to journalists at the Army Special Super Camp IV, Faskari, said three bandits were neutralised on the spot, while two other dead bodies of the bandits were later discovered along their withdrawal route. Onyeuko, in the statement, explained that in the aftermath of the fierce fire-fight, three nursing mothers and their infants earlier kidnapped by the marauding bandits were rescued by the gallant troops. Regrettably, he said one brave soldier paid the supreme price in an attempt to save one of the rescued nursing mothers in the heat of the deadly encounter. He said: “On October 29, 2020, troops swiftly responded to a distress call about bandits activities at Diskuru village in Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State. “The incident was recorded as the marauding bandits stormed the village on several motorcycles, shooting sporadically with the intent to scare the locals and loot valuables. “On arrival, the gallant troops engaged the criminals in a fierce fire fight forcing them to withdraw in disarray. Resulting from the encounter, three bandits were neutralised by the troops as several others were believed to have escaped with various degrees of gunshot wounds”. He added: “During the exploitation phase, two additional bandits’ dead bodies were discovered along their withdrawal route. Also in the aftermath of the encounter, three women and their infants earlier kidnapped by the bandits were rescued from the criminals. “Troops continue to dominate the village and adjoining environment to deny the bandits any respite. Regrettably, one brave soldier paid the supreme price in an attempt to save one of the rescued nursing mothers in the heat of the encounter”