Victor Ogunje in Ado-Ekiti Lagos and Ekiti States yesterday lifted the curfew imposed on the state due to the fallout out of the #EndSARS protests against police brutality. Likewise, the Delta State Government announced a further relaxation of the curfew imposed following violence by hoodlums who hijacked the #EndSARS protests. While Lagos lifted the curfew with immediate effect, the lifting of the curfew in Ekiti became effective at 6 am today. A statement issued by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso announcing the lifting of the curfew said the curfew imposed on Lagos State after the hijack of the peaceful #EndSARS protests have been lifted immediately. “The 12 a.m. to 4 a.m. curfew imposed by the Federal Government to curb the spread of COVID-19 remains. Lagosians are free to go about their business without any hindrance whatsoever. Security agencies will continue to discharge their duties. “Lagosians are urged to cooperate with them to maintain the status of our state as one of the most peaceful. “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu thanks security agencies for their efforts in restoring peace to our troubled communities. He commends Lagosians for observing the curfew and ensuring the return of normalcy.” In a statement by its Commissioner for Information and Values Orientation, Akin Omole, the Ekiti State government disclosed that Governor Kayode Fayemi lifted all restrictions earlier imposed on worship centres in the state. The statement read in part: “The Ekiti State Government has lifted the curfew imposed on the state with effect from 6am on Sunday, November 1, 2020. “The decision to lift the curfew was taken after an assessment of the security situation and the restoration of relative peace in the state,” the statement said. It explained that Fayemi also “approved the lifting of the restrictions placed on religious gatherings during the coronavirus pandemic with effect from the same date, November 1. “He, however, emphasised the need for worshippers to continue adhering to the Covid-19 protocol, adding that they must wear face-masks, maintain social distancing and properly wash their hands or sanitise their hands before joining their respective congregations. “He also stressed the need for residents in the State to be law-abiding, vigilant and promptly report suspicious movement to relevant authorities, assuring that the State Government would leave no stone unturned towards ensuring the safety of lives and property of the people in the State.” Also in a statement by its Commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu, Delta State said the curfew would now be from 8:00 pm until 6:00 am daily, adding that the change would come into force from Saturday, October 31, 2020. He expressed the state government’s appreciation to Deltans for observing the curfew, which he said was aimed at restoring normalcy in the state. Aniagwu said: “As a government, we are not unmindful of the stress our people are going through on account of the curfew, but it was inevitable in order to protect the lives and property of Deltans. “We must thank Deltans for protecting the interest of our common patrimony by ensuring that no further destruction of public buildings was witnessed in the state. “As part of our avowed commitment to building a stronger Delta with our youths, let me also express the determination of the State Government to give effect to the decisions reached in the town hall meetings with youths in the state.” As peace gradually returned to Lagos State, Sanwo-Olu had eased the curfew from 8am to 6pm on Saturday, October 23. He subsequently ordered the resumption of schools and further relaxation of the curfew imposed on the state from 6 am to 10 pm on Friday, October 31. After lifting the curfew on Saturday, the governor “urges the citizenry not to do or encourage any action that may turn back the clock, but to keep living in harmony as we get set to rebuild our dear State and strengthen the unity that we are known for.” Sanwo-Olu had announced the imposition of the curfew on Tuesday, October 20, in the wake of the unrest in the state.
Hoodlums had taken advantage of the #EndSARS protests against police brutality and extrajudicial killings to wreak havoc and cause mayhem in the state. The situation was further worsened when soldiers, in a bid to disperse the protesters at the Lekki toll gate, opened fire on the youths. This sparked rioting, violence, and international outrage. Delta State governor Ifeanyi Okowa had imposed a 48-hour curfew on the state following wanton destruction of public buildings in parts of the state by miscreants in the guise of the #EndSARS protests; but he relaxed the curfew on Saturday, October 24 to between 6pm to 8am daily.