The Department of State Services (DSS) has arraigned one Kabiru Mohammed, for creating and sharing a fake wedding video between President Muhammadu Buhari and Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Farouq. Mohammed, 32, who was arraigned at a Chief Magistrates’ Court at Nomansland in Kano yesterday, was however granted a N1million bail. The suspect, who was paraded by the DSS in January this year, had admitted to creating and sharing the videos begged for forgiveness, saying it was a mistake. The video which was made around August last year, had gone viral on the Internet. He was arraigned on two counts of defamation and injurious falsehood. According to the counsel to the DSS, Mr. IB Bulus, Mohammed’s action caused “confusion and injury to the persons involved, tarnishing their character and causing disaffection among their families and associates, through the spreading of fake news.” He urged the magistrate court presided over by Aminu Gabari to order the remand of the defendant in the DSS custody for seven days. He said this would enable the prosecution team to conclude investigation into the case and obtain legal advice from the Kano State Ministry of Justice. But the defendant’s counsel, Moses Edema, opposed this, saying his client should be granted bail because the alleged offence is a bailable offence. Giving his ruling, Gabari held that the offence was bailable and granted the defendant bail in the sum of N1m with two sureties in like sum. The magistrate said of one the two sureties should either be the chairman or secretary of the Singer Market Association, where the defendant sells rice, while the second surety should be a civil servant on Grade Level 14. Gabari said the DSS should identify the residence of Muhammad’s and ensure that he report to them daily. He said the defendant should report at the office of the Service from 8am to 2pm from Monday to Friday, and also, be there between 9am and 2pm on Saturdays and Sundays. The case was adjourned till February 5, 2020, for further hearing.