By Oluchi Chibuzor Committed to spotlighting and elevating young local talent on the continent by investing capital and knowledge resources into African culture and communities, Audiomack has announced a partnership with Transsion Holdings, the manufacturer of popular smartphone brands, Tecno, Infinix and Itel. This partnership will further drive the growing need for a tech-enabled platform for entertainment especially for the growing market within music lovers in Nigeria. The firm disclosed this in a statement released recently in Lagos. With a presence in all 54 African countries, Audiomack has focused on democratizing music streaming by providing accessibility for all, a mission which Transsion smartphone owners will greatly benefit from. This approach has resulted in significant organic growth for the app amongst its highly engaged users. For the rapidly growing digital community, this partnership presents access to Audiomack’s uninterrupted stream of the best and newest of music and diverse playlist selections. According to the Head of Business Development and Partnerships, Audiomack Africa, Charlotte Bwana, “We are truly excited at the prospects of this partnership to offer best and hottest new music through a mix of real-time trending, top charts, and expertly-curated playlists to the Transsion smartphone users.” Speaking on the partnership, Mojisola Adenusi, the Regional Manager, West AfricaTranssion Audience Network said ‘We are delighted with this collaboration to drive Audiomack’s expansion across key markets in Africa. As a company with the vision to lead smart devices and mobile services in emerging markets, Audiomack’s ability to create a user-oriented consumer product for our users inspires us to take this even further.” In addition, the Strategy and Partnerships, West Africa Transsion Audience Network, Itoro Uwemakpan, stressed that “key partnerships are how we initiate valuable paradigm shifts in the mobile consumer space. Our current work with Audiomack is a recipe for expansion with one goal, to propel user engagement and deliver quality entertainment.”