A feast of explosive boxing action awaits fans across Africa, as GOtv Boxing Night 21 holds today at the Rowe Park Sports Centre, Lagos. Boxers Talk Tough as GOtv Boxing Night 21 Holds Today A feast of explosive boxing action awaits fans across Africa, as GOtv Boxing Night 21 holds today at the Rowe Park Sports Centre, Lagos. The event, which will be broadcast live on SuperSport Select 2 (channel 34) and DStv channel 209, will hold behind closed doors in line with Covid-19 safety protocols. Boxers billed for the seven scheduled bouts have been boasting ahead of the show. Policeman Prince “Lion” Nwoye, who is billed to take on West African Boxing Union (WABU) lightweight champion, Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu, has declared that his opponent’s winning streak will end today. Oladosu, who is yet to taste defeat as a professional, defeated Nwoye in a closely contested bout at GOtv Boxing Night 15. Though he lost the fight, Nwoye managed to curtail the volume punching of the WABU champion and did not buckle, as his previous opponents had done, till the end of the eight-round bout. On the coming fight, Nwoye said he is confident of inflicting the first defeat on Oladosu, who he said was lucky the last time they met. “Things are different now. He will be defeated. He was lucky the last time. He won’t be lucky this time. It is my turn to win and I’m confident of beating him and doing so very well,” said the policeman. Former African Boxing Union (ABU) light welterweight champion, Olaide “Fijaborn” Fijabi, has vowed to make his opponent, Dennis “The Range” Mbat, regret ever fighting him. Fijabi, who is returning to the ring after two years, said he is aiming to regain the continental title and later win the Commonwealth title. A similar boast was made by WABU welterweight champion, Rilwan “Baby Face” Babatunde, who said he will use his opponent, Jubril “Terrible Olalekan, to warm up for his ABU title bid. The headline bout will see Habeeb “Ige” Oladeji take on Tunde “Turning Star” Olojede for the national bantamweight title. Other fights scheduled are the super featherweight clash between Sikiru “Omo Iya Eleja” Sogbesan and Kazeem “Delight” Oluwo; lightweight challenge clash between Lateef “Akins Jr” Akinola and Alaba “Elyblow” Omotola as well as light heavyweight duel between Cosmos “Awosika” David and Segun “Success” Olanrewaju. The event, which will be broadcast live on SuperSport Select 2 (channel 34) and DStv channel 209, will hold behind closed doors in line with Covid-19 safety protocols. Boxers billed for the seven scheduled bouts have been boasting ahead of the show. Policeman Prince “Lion” Nwoye, who is billed to take on West African Boxing Union (WABU) lightweight champion, Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu, has declared that his opponent’s winning streak will end today. Oladosu, who is yet to taste defeat as a professional, defeated Nwoye in a closely contested bout at GOtv Boxing Night 15. Though he lost the fight, Nwoye managed to curtail the volume punching of the WABU champion and did not buckle, as his previous opponents had done, till the end of the eight-round bout. On the coming fight, Nwoye said he is confident of inflicting the first defeat on Oladosu, who he said was lucky the last time they met. “Things are different now. He will be defeated. He was lucky the last time. He won’t be lucky this time. It is my turn to win and I’m confident of beating him and doing so very well,” said the policeman. Former African Boxing Union (ABU) light welterweight champion, Olaide “Fijaborn” Fijabi, has vowed to make his opponent, Dennis “The Range” Mbat, regret ever fighting him. Fijabi, who is returning to the ring after two years, said he is aiming to regain the continental title and later win the Commonwealth title. A similar boast was made by WABU welterweight champion, Rilwan “Baby Face” Babatunde, who said he will use his opponent, Jubril “Terrible Olalekan, to warm up for his ABU title bid. The headline bout will see Habeeb “Ige” Oladeji take on Tunde “Turning Star” Olojede for the national bantamweight title. Other fights scheduled are the super featherweight clash between Sikiru “Omo Iya Eleja” Sogbesan and Kazeem “Delight” Oluwo; lightweight challenge clash between Lateef “Akins Jr” Akinola and Alaba “Elyblow” Omotola as well as light heavyweight duel between Cosmos “Awosika” David and Segun “Success” Olanrewaju.