By Fadakemi Ajakaiye Lagos’s rapid demographic expansion will increasingly occur in an urban setting. The scale of the population growth and existing infrastructure will necessitate the development of novel metropolitan settlements across the state. In that regard, Lagos has the thrilling opportunity to fundamentally rethink the modern city and how the built and natural environments can co-exist. “The future is urban, and Lagos is no exception. With less existing infrastructure and metropolitan skyscapes, Lagos’ city builders have a unique opportunity to imagine entirely new approaches to city design and this is gradually coming to fruition with the evolution of Lekki skylines, thanks to housing development projects such as Paradise Court by Meridian Park Estates”, according to Real Estate enthusiast Mr. Olanrewaju Fawibe. “Lagos state can lean on building templates of this nature without losing its cultural and environmental traditions to pioneer a fundamentally novel approach to urban planning which would also serve as a welcome development within the Nigerian real estate sector. Paradise court is a structural manifestation of continuous iteration carried out by a real estate company abreast of current real estate trends and building practices.” Set on Orchid Road opposite Chevron drive, Paradise Court represents a structural embodiment of unending luxury, serenity and peaceful contentment, a place to experience the pinnacle of comfort and luxury without neglecting all the essential requirements for family life. Fortified with state of the art housing units that possesses sustainable compartments, 24/7 power supply, a playground for kids and modern living facilities, Paradise Court is set to redefine luxurious living in Lagos state while increasing rate of property ownership towards the middle class income by offering a 4-bedroom maisonette at ₦15.99m pay and move in price along with a flexible payment plan that spans as between 6 – 24 months. Situated within a prominent area in Lekki, Paradise Court is 10 minutes away from Victoria Island, in close proximity to Chevron – the leading American multinational energy corporation and the headquarters of the biggest companies in Nigeria. Meridian Park Estate is playing a pivotal role in establishing new cities, radically redeveloping existing urban spaces to facilitate urbanisation and proactively promoting specific types of economic advancement in Lagos state through the realisation of product offerings such as Paradise court.