Nigeria has been rated one of the largest markets for noodles consumption globally. The World Instant Noodles Association (WINA), in its latest report, ranked Nigeria 11th in the global demand for noodles, putting Nigeria among the largest consumers of instant noodles, with 1.92 million servings as at May 2020. The report also ranked Indomie Instant Noodles as the most consumed brand in Nigeria. Speaking on this feat, Chief Operations Officer of Dufil Prima Foods Plc, Mr. Adesh Jain, averred that Indomie was able to sustain market dominance by giving priority to innovation and creativity. He said, “The successful exploitation of new ideas is crucial to a business being able to improve its processes, introduce new, improved products and services to market, increased efficiency, and, most importantly, improve profitability. “Though we have maintained market dominance in the noodles market in Nigeria for close to three decades, we will not rest on our oars because we understand that market environments—whether local, regional, national or global—are becoming highly competitive, hence, there is a need to do more.” He added that Dufil had consistently adapted its product-lines to the changing marketplace over the years. “In 2019, we added Indomie Relish to our range of products as a response to consumers’ yearning for a wholesome and satisfying meal experience. Indomie Relish was introduced to meet this need as it provides a complete, balanced and savoury culinary experience with real fish chunks and fish powder in the seafood flavour packs,” Jain said. It will be recalled that in November 2017, Dufil Prima Foods also consolidated its dominance in Nigeria’s noodles market by acquiring the plants of Dangote Noodles Limited, a subsidiary of Dangote Flour Mills Plc. The deal, which is reported to worth N3.75 billion ($12.26 million), gave Dufil ownership of Dangote noodles factories in Ikorodu, Lagos State and in Calabar, Cross River State. Also, in 2018, Dufil acquired 100 per cent of the food production line of May & Baker Nigeria Plc., which operates its noodles business under the brand name Mimee Noodles. The deal was valued at N775 million.