Obinna Chima
The Chairman of Transcorp and Founder of the Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF), Mr. Tony Elumelu, has stressed that improving access to electricity remains the single most critical factor for lifting a lot of Nigerians out of poverty and job creation for the teeming youth. He said this during the announcement of Transcorp Consortium’s 100 per cent acquisition of the 966MW installed capacity Afam Power Plc and Afam Three Fast Power Limited, at an acquisition cost of N105.3 billion.
According to Elumelu, who is also the Chairman of the United Bank for Africa Group, bringing affordable, dependable power to the Nigerian people is core to Transcorp’s mission. “Our significant investments in the power sector are demonstrations of our contribution to the economic transformation that I know Nigeria is capable of. Power remains the single most critical factor for lifting our people out of poverty and job creation for our teaming youth. “The acquisition marks a significant milestone for Transcorp in the pursuit of its corporate purpose of improving lives and transforming Nigeria. I am honoured to be working with the federal government and urge it to continue its policy of creating an enabling environment, which sustains the confidence of both local and foreign investors – and delivers the opportunities and aspirations that all Nigerians seek.” Speaking at the event, Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, said: “Today marks a milestone for the country with a return to private sector investment in the power sector. “This investment by Transcorp in acquiring ‘Afam Power Plc’ and ‘Afam Three Fast Power’ is the first of many new investments planned in the sector across the value chain. We expect that under Transcorp’s ownership the operational capacity of the facility will be raised to its full capacity.” Speaking on Transcorp’s track record, the Director-General of the BPE, Mr. Alex Okoh said “Transcorp Consortium is one of the success stories of Nigeria’s Privatisation Programme. Through its investments in Transcorp Hotels Plc and Transcorp Ughelli Power Limited, the consortium has consistently achieved its performance targets as contained in the respective post-acquisition plans.”