Globacom is facilitating access to popular social media platforms through its newly introduced affordable packages tagged, ‘Glo Social Bundles.’ The Glo Social Bundles include a package each for WhatsApp, Twitter, and Facebook, under which subscribers can enjoy 100MB for N25 per day; 200MB for N50 valid for seven days and 500MB for N100, valid for 30 days. Another package is named YouTube Bundle for YouTube viewing alone, which gives 100MB per day for N50; 200MB for 7 days at N100 and 500MB for N250, valid for 30 days.
There is also Single Bundles where customers can choose among Tiktok, Telegram and Instagram, giving 20MB at N25 for a day; 50MB at N50 for 7 days and 125MB of data for N100, valid for 30 days. According to statement from Globacom, all the packages would be available to Globacom’s prepaid and postpaid customers. They can access any of the packages by dialling *777# and clicking on Social Bundles to view a menu of the respective bundles. Globacom stated there would be an option of auto-renewal for subscribers who wish to have uninterrupted subscription. To use this option, the subscriber is required to have enough credit for the type of subscription he or she desires. Phase3 Clocks 17 Years of Operations Phase3 Telecom, an independent fiber optic network infrastructure and telecommunications services provider, has set in motion, a seven point client value and innovation targeted roadmap, in commemoration of its 17th anniversary with the theme: “Moving Forward”.
The company, having begun its operations in 2003, to provide fibre optic backbone infrastructure, broadband, and converged services across Nigeria, has over the years, expanded the scope of its operations beyond the shores of Nigeria, through invaluable global partnerships. Thus, launching multiple expansion projects targeted at transforming West Africa’s telecommunications landscape, using innovative technology, as leverage to effectively connect people and businesses within the sub-region, and to the rest of the world.
Executive Chairman, Phase3 Telecom, Mr. Stanley Jegede, said: “For 17 years, Phase3’s role in Nigeria, and Africa’s telecommunications cum technology space, has become more mission critical for the future. Considering the global new normal created by COVID-19, as it places limits on face-to-face interactions, and disrupts traditional as well as tested ways, businesses engage with customers, partners and stakeholders across market demographics”. According to him, as one of the most daunting health crises in modern history, the pandemic has increased the company’s resilience and re-engineered its network capabilities to chart a seven point roadmap, and develop multiple scenario business mitigation plan that are helmed on re-establishing safe and secure ways of delivering Phase3 connectivity, communication and cloud services. Nokia Releases Android 10 for Phone Users HMD Global, the home of Nokia phones, has released a set of phones to further solidify its ongoing commitment to always provide secure and up-to-date Android solution that fans can trust. Nokia smartphones remain at the forefront of both security updates and Android OS upgrades, as recognised by research from Counterpoint. According to their data, 94 per cent of the Nokia smartphone portfolio updated to the latest Android version within a year of new Android release. This made it the fastest brand to reach this level. The Android 10 rollout completes with the update of the Nokia 3.1 and the Nokia 5.1. Chief Product Officer, HMD Global, Juho Sarvikas, said: “Upgrading the operating system of a phone is an intricate process involving multiple partners and a variety of tests. We are hugely proud of the industry-leading process we have in place for Nokia smartphones and continue to make it a key priority of ours to ensure our customers benefit from the latest Android innovation ahead of competition in every price point.” In just over three years, Nokia smartphones have collectively been updated 1,000 times – a significant milestone proving the company’s unwavering commitment to ensuring its fans are always using the most up-to-date features in the most secure environment. Committed to full transparency, HMD Global has released its timeline for upgrading its Android 11-ready portfolio to the latest Android OS. The rollout is planned to commence in Q4 2020 with the newly-available Nokia 8.3 5G and the Nokia 5.3.