By Segun Awofadeji The Bauchi State Government yesterday commenced a public hearing on the proposed 2021 budget with participants from the northern senatorial district of the state. Speaking at the opening ceremony held at the Aminu Saleh College of Education, Azare, the state Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning, Dr. Aminu Hassan Gamawa, said the public hearing was organised to get inputs of the citizens of the state before the formulation and consolidation of the proposed budget as it is going to be demand-driven. He said the hearing is also to allow for a wider participation and in all-inclusiveness as well as to create a sense of ownership and sustainability and providing mechanism for feedback. “With the intention of the state government in bringing the government nearer to the grassroots and in conformity with international best practice, this budget public hearing is purposely organised to provide an avenue for monitoring and evaluation of projects and programmes of the government. “As you all know, budget is a short-term plan or process where future income and expenditure are decided or projected within a given fiscal period,” he stated. Gamawa told the participants that already, their previous inputs have been used by the state government, and urged them not to relent in providing useful contributions and observations for effective service delivery. He mentioned the various achievements recorded by the state government in its priority areas of education, health, agriculture, infrastructure, human capital development among others. Represented by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Yahuza Adamu, the commissioner recalled that the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic has necessitated the state government to revised its 2020 budget. According to him, “In the Ministry of Budget and Economic Planning, we considered this public hearing as very important to us because it assists us to get inputs of the citizens in the budget process.” The public hearing has in attendance chairmen of local government areas in the zone, traditional leaders, civil society organisations among others.