Stories by Eromosele Abiodun
The House of Representatives Committee on Maritime Safety, Education and Administration has hailed the budget implementation status of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA). Chairman of the committee, Hon. Lynda Ikpeazu, who stated this in Lagos during an oversight visit to NIMASA, said the agency has done creditably well, despite the coronavirus pandemic. Ikpeazu expressed confidence in the current management of NIMASA led by the Director-General, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, adding that Jamoh has laid down a clear roadmap for taking the agency to greater heights, and pledged the lower chamber’s support. The House Committee chairman added that, “The Director-General has laid a good foundation for the committee and the committee is here to monitor the activities of the Agency for 2020 and see how it has performed so far and further legislative assistance that can be brought to bear in order to generate more revenue for the government. The DG of NIMASA is doing his best to ensure that he repositions the agency to make sure the Agency delivers on its core mandates. We will make sure we give the DG all the necessary support he needs because we have seen him moving towards the right direction and, most especially, he has made it clear to us that he wants to address insecurity in the Gulf of Guinea. The issue of security goes a long way to affect revenue generation in the maritime sector.” She also revealed that the Coastal and Inland Shipping Act Amendment Bill had gone through First Reading in the House of Representatives. She said the proposed amendment would reflect contemporary issues that would be beneficial to indigenous shipowners in the country. “A more responsive Cabotage law will stimulate opportunities and policies for giving seafarers jobs and improve on shipbuilding capacity, ”Ikpeazu stated. Jamoh, in his response, thanked the committee for the cooperation and support it had accorded NIMASA. He said on his watch human capacity development in the maritime industry would continue to take pride of place. The Director-General stated: “Human beings are the most important link in the maritime industry and, at the same time, the weakest and most complicated in the industry. This administration will take the issue of training and capacity development of staff serious and we have gone further to maintain a close relationship with the maritime workers union to ensure that dockworkers are properly trained.” Jamoh had on assumption of duty as Director-General in March launched a three-pronged agenda for maritime industry development focused on Maritime Safety, Maritime Security, and Shipping Development.