By Rebecca Ejifoma Operatives of the Lagos State Police Command have arrested 13 suspected cultists who were on rampage at Moroluke/Wey Street, Mushin and Ikorodu areas of Lagos State between Sunday and Monday respectively. The suspects arrested in Mushin, who are members of Omo Kasari confraternity, include Daniel Adome, 18; Popoola Michael, 20; Kayode Thomson, 18; and Taiwo Okiki,18. Their arrest is coming barely 24 hours after a special operational team dispatched by the State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, led by the Divisional Police Officer in Ipakodo, arrested nine members of Aiye Confraternity fomenting troubles in Ikorodu. The arrested suspected cultists include Opeyemi Oderinde, 19; Otubu Samson, 17; Otako Jeremiah, 16; Kayode Agoro, 17; Agbelusi Sunday, 20; Kazeem Ishola, 20; Olasojo Gbolahan, 18; Ayodele Olasunkanmi, 18; and Segun James, 21. While the suspected cultists in Mushin were nabbed on November 8 around 10pm, those suspected cultists in Ikorodu were arrested on November 9 around 12.15pm. Items recovered from the suspects are: locally-made guns, live cartridges, axes, cutlasses, charms, and some other offensive weapons. According to the State Police Public Relations Officer, SP Muyiwa Adejobi, the suspects were apprehended following the recent cult related crises in Ikorodu Area of Lagos State. He added that the Lagos State Police Command had vowed to rid the state of cultists and hoodlums who foment trouble and threaten peace and security of the State. Adejobi said that recently the CP gave the matching order to the Area Commanders, Divisional Police Officers and Heads of Department via Police Wireless Message that miscreants, cultists and hoodlums be sniffed out of their hideouts, arrested and prosecuted accordingly. In the words of the CP, cultism precedes and precipitates other heinous crimes and social vices; and it must be tackled headlong. “The CP has concluded plans to work hand in hand with the Lagos State Ministry of Justice to secure speedy trial of the suspects as the command’s Operation Say No to Cultism continues,” the PRO said. Meanwhile, Adejobi said the CP recognised and appreciated the roles of community members in making the operations successful. Therefore, he called for more supports from all and sundry in the fight against cultism and other vices in the state.