By Duro Ikhazuagbe with agency report Former Nigerian international, Odion Ighalo may return to action tonight in Istanbul when Manchester United line up against the Turkish capital city club, Başakşehir in continuation of their UEFA Champions League Group H fixtures. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer‘ men who suffered a 0-1 home defeat to Arsenal last weekend will be looking to consolidate in Europe with this supposed ‘easy’ fixture at the Başakşehir Fatih Terim Stadyumu. United with maximum six points from two games against PSG and RB Leipzig will stretch their lead to nine points if they succeed in this adventure in Turkey. Ighalo who has remained on the sideline since Edinson Cavani joined United from PSG may get a look in for a possible start from the bench. The Shanghai Shenhua loanee was among the 24 United players that flew aboard an Aeroflot flight to Turkey yesterday afternoon. The 31-year-old former Watford forward have Cavani, Mason Greenwood, Anthony Martial and Marcus Rashford to battle for a spots in United’s attack against the Turkish Super Lig side. Ighalo whose loan deal will run out January ending next year, has become frustrated just warming bench for several match days now. A fantastic outing tonight may perhaps change his fortune and return him to reckoning as Solskjaer fight the battle of his career rescuing the English giants from drop zone in the domestic league. Meanwhile, Istanbul Basaksehir Nigerian midfielder, Azubuike Okechukwu, has revealed that the Turkish Super Lig champions will pay special attention to two United stars in the shape of Paul Pogba and Marcus Rashford tonight. The Nigeria international won’t play a part against the Premier League side because he’s still recovering from a long-term injury and wasn’t registered for the group stage of the Champions League. Rashford has continued with his fine form in front of goal by scoring seven goals in 10 appearances for the Red Devils across all competitions in the new season, including a sensational hat-trick against RB Leipzig last week. “I am not in the matchday squad, I am not yet fit and I wasn’t registered for the Champions League because of the injury,” Okechukwu told allnigeriasoccer.comyesterday. “The doctor said I won’t be able to play four games in the Champions League so they told me and decided to register me if we continue in the next round of the tournament. “I have been injured and won’t be fit until the end of November”. Assessing the chances of Istanbul Basaksehir beating Manchester United, he said : “It’s going to be a difficult game, but I have trained with the team for few days now and the team is prepared to face Manchester United. “They’ve got a big squad, but mainly we are looking to stop Paul Pogba and Marcus Rashford”. Istanbul Basaksehir suffered 2-0 defeats to Paris Saint-Germain and RB Leipzig in their first two Champions League games. THE SQUAD David de Gea, Dean Henderson, Lee Grant; Aaron Wan-Bissaka, Timothy Fosu-Mensah, Axel Tuanzebe, Victor Lindelof, Teden Mengi, Harry Maguire, Luke Shaw, Brandon Williams; Nemanja Matic, Fred, Scott McTominay, Paul Pogba, Donny van de Beek, Juan Mata, Daniel James, Bruno Fernande; Anthony Martial, Marcus Rashford, Edinson Cavani, Odion Ighalo, Mason Greenwood