Investment One Financial Services Limited has made three more of its investment funds, namely: Vantage Dollar Fund (VDF), Vantage Equity Income Fund (VEIF) and Vantage Balanced Fund (VBF) on its trending mobile investment app-Ziing. The Group, which boasts of at least eight thriving subsidiaries, earlier in the year, launched its Mutual Fund on the Ziing App. Ziing is an app powered by Investment One Financial Services to ease savings, investments and reduce financial friction. The App was launched to the public more than one year ago, with about three features which are zSave, zPlan and Fixed Income.
Speaking on the new initiative, the Group Managing /Chief Executive Officer, Investment One Financial Services, Nicholas Nyamali, said the purpose was to make available more investment opportunities for investors home and abroad. He disclosed that the App has helped thousands of Nigerians save hundreds of millions of naira and become more investment savvy.
‘’Within one year of launch, Ziing has had over 10,000 downloads on Android and IOS devices. Our plan for Ziing is to provide more investment opportunities and make the platform truly ‘amaziing’ for users,” he said. Speaking on the funds just made available on the Ziing app, he noted that all the funds are registered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), adding that the Vantage Dollar Fund, being an open-ended Unit Trust Scheme, seeks to provide investors with bias for Dollar denominated securities access to such securities, which ordinarily would be inaccessible to them by virtue of the minimum amount typically required to make such investments. It helps investors to invest primarily in Corporate and Sovereign Eurobonds. The Vantage Equity Income Fund has the objective of providing regular income and long term capital appreciation from investments in dividend paying and high quality equity instruments quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), where the issuers have an investment grade rating from a credit rating agency registered by SEC and fixed income securities approved by SEC. Investment One explained that the Vantage Balanced Fund is a diversified and balanced fund designed to maximise long term capital growth and maintain regular income distribution.