Mary Nnah As part of its commitment to education and to bring about capacity development in Nigeria, Platform Capital Group has donated items ranging from the Adopt-a-School programme world-class swimming pool and a multipurpose sports hall as well offered N30 Million Scholarships under its Adopt-a-School Programme. Platform Capital aims at improving education across primary and secondary schools in the country. The recent gesture is a continuation of the work in the education vertical which began with the refurbishment and donation of 3 ultra-modern lecture halls for the University of Lagos and Business School’s (ULBS) Executive MBA programme. The entire building was renovated, and lecture halls were fully fitted with state-of-the art technology including interactive white boards, sound systems and versatile furniture, to ensure a best-in-class digital learning environment for students. A similar development is currently underway at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Osun State. The thrust of the programme involves identifying, adopting, renovating and rehabilitating schools across the country; and creating model institutions of learning for students that provides them with world class facilities and access to best-in-class learning. For the latest phase of this initiative, City of Knowledge Academy (CKA) in Ijebu-Ode (CKA), Ogun State was selected as a beneficiary of the Adopt-a-School initiative. Platform Capital will fund the sponsorship of 10 students of CKA at N30 million a year, the construction of a world-class swimming pool and multi-purpose sports hall. Platform Capital will also provide internship opportunities for students at Platform Capital and its portfolio companies. Partner, Platform Capital, Dr. Ponmile Osibo said that beyond providing long-term capital to its investee companies at Platform Capital, it has also decided that it was critical to address deeply entrenched development challenges with innovative solutions to truly effect change. Osibo explaned further that this was what led to the establishment of Diatom Impact, an impact focused, research and investment organisation committed to being a global change agent through collaborative partnerships with communities, corporations, and governments, adding, “Education is one of Diatom Impact’s 5 key focus areas and our work there is pivotal to unlocking and transforming young minds on the continent.” Director, Research and Impact, Diatom Impact, Dr. Anna Bethune, said, “We’re very passionate about building up education infrastructure in Nigeria. This is just one of our many innovative solutions and a huge part of Dr. Akintoye Akindele’s vision as we continue to invest in the village and in being our brother’s keeper. We believe that education is one of the most important ways to ensure we build our nation for a better future. It is important that the children we sponsor are not only academically sound but are also well rounded in character and learning. We’re proud of our partnership with CKA and we believe in their 3 ethical pillars – culture, character, and confidence.” Founder, City of Knowledge Academy, Mrs Mosun Belo-Olusoga, said, “When I was setting up CKA, I wanted to give children an opportunity, who under normal circumstances would not have the chance to be educated in an institution of similar standards as CKA. As such, we solicit sponsorships from individuals and corporate institutions and we are delighted that Dr. Akindele’s vision aligns with ours, as we strive to ensure that our students are good ambassadors of our culture, of sound character and confident enough to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with their counterparts from any part of the globe.” In attendance at the formal presentation of the cheque were Founder, City of Knowledge Academy, Mrs Mosun Belo-Olusoga; Head of School, City of Knowledge Academy, Ms Abiola Lamikanra; Vice Principal (Academics); Mr Edwin Bankole, Vice Principal (Administration & Pastoral Care), Mr Emmanuel Kolapo; Director, Research and Impact, Diatom Impact, Dr. Anna Bethune, and PR & Communications Manager, Platform Capital, Mrs Sharon-Ann Adaigbe.