LG Electronics has again expressed its commitment to providing consumers with outstanding viewing experience with the launch of its Signature OLED 8K TV (ZX Series).
The company explained in a statement that the move was to ensure that customers get future-proofed products that delivers mesmerising picture quality regardless of the format. “Not only do the new TVs deliver Real 8K, they are also future-proofed to provide customers peace of mind with multiple ways to enjoy the Real 8K experience. The new models offer the capability to play native 8K content, with the support of the widest selection of 8K content sources from HDMI and USB digital inputs, including codecs such as HEVC, VP9 and AV1, the latter being backed by major streaming providers including YouTube. LG’s 8K TVs will support 8K content streaming at a rapid 60FPS and are certified to deliver 8K 60P over HDMI. “The LG SIGNATURE OLED 8K TVs line-up includes premium 88-inch which is the size currently in the market and 77-inch class to arrive later, exceeds the industry’s official new 8K Ultra HD definition set by the Consumer Technology Association (CTA), with trusted independent labs such as TÜV Rheinland validating that LG SIGNATURE OLED 8K exceed this definition. “LG’s AI Sound Pro analyses and classifies the audio of content among five categories –music, movies, sports, drama or news – for clearer voices and richer, more textured background sound. Spoken words are isolated and their volume increased, making it distinctively easier for viewers to understand while background noises are identified and the scene up-mixed to virtual 5.1 surround for a heightened level of viewer immersion. “On top of the exceptional viewing experience, LG OLED 8K TV offers a new level of convenience made possible by AI technology. Users can monitor and control compatible IoT devices directly from the TV’s Home Dashboard, while Hands-Free Voice Control allows viewers to easily control multiple connected devices with just their voice, even from across the room. “Available in 144 countries, ThinQ voice recognition is built into every LG 8K TV. And with LG’s popular smart TV platform, webOS, the new TVs support Apple AirPlay 2 and HomeKit as well as both Google Assistant,” the statement explained. According to the General Manager of the LG Home Entertainment Division, Mr Vanjamin Kim, “LG is deeply committed to providing consumers with an outstanding viewing and gaming experience with Eye Comfort Display that protect the eyes whilst watching favourite contents. With LG 88OLEDZX, customers can know they are getting future-proofed television that will deliver mesmerizing picture quality regardless of the format.”