After its successes recorded in its first and second editions in Abuja and Lagos 2019, the third edition of Vivacity PR annual Glocalisation and Branding Summit, is set to hold on December 1, 2020 at the NEPC Building, Maitama in Abuja. With theme, ‘A Synergy between Global and Local Strategies’ this edition of the summit aims to deepen knowledge and further discussions on glocalisation processes for all Nigerian SMEs. According to the founder Vivacity PR and convener, Oluwakemi Ann-Melody Areola, the essence of the Summit targets MSMEs, Intrapreneurs, Entrepreneurs and Multinational organisations with the aim of creating strong and sustainable business alliances across a number of key sectors — ICT, PR, Fashion, Cosmetics, Automobile, Art, Law, Finance, Culture & Tourism, Retail, Hotel & Hospitality, Education, Mining, Renewable Energy, Infrastructural Development, Real Estate, Health, and more. She noted that the concept of glocalisation is creation of products or services intended for the global market but customised to serve the local cultures. “Glocalisation has been advocated as an attractive alternative to mass tourism, providing sustainable livelihoods to small local operators, protecting and sustaining the cultural resources, and educating tourists and locals alike. “The glocalisation of media merges globalised media and local specificities, this mixes the elements different cultures can share with specific elements that pertain to a specific culture. In the context of marketing, glocalisation signifies the creation of services or products for the international market by adapting the product to local or regional culture.” The summit, which is first of its kind in Nigeria will bring together speakers from private sector and government parastatals to enlighten attendees on glocalisation and the efforts being made to ensure that Nigerian products compete at the same level as others in the global market. It will therefore a ssist in providing an enabling environment for Nigerian SMEs to flourish locally and internationally. Help in the reduction of the unemployment rate through entrepreneurship and job creation. Create an avenue for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises to interact with Federal Agencies and obtain practical and on-the-spot solutions to their business challenges. These solutions include on-the-spot business registrations, processing of approvals/licenses, advisory, capacity building and more. And bring necessary required Government business development services to MSMEs within the country through the participating Federal Agencies of MSME Clinics including Bank of Agriculture (BOA), Bank of Industry (BOI), Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Industrial Training Fund (ITF), National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Nigerian Export Import Bank (NEXIM), Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Small and Medium Enterprise Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), and the Standards Organizlsation of Nigeria (SON). Vivacity PR is a global company within local reach headquartered in Nigeria but diligently serving clients in Africa, Europe, USA and beyond. With speciality in building and protecting reputations with effective and affordable communications and promotions, they implore the use of intelligent, highly targeted/focused PR and marketing campaigns to achieve desired results, while providing full professional public relations service utilising a wide range of skills, spanning over ten years practical experience.