By John Shiklam Three personnel of the Kaduna State Vigilance Service (KADVIS), have been killed while two others were wounded following an ambush by bandits. The bandits also opened fire on motorists close to the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA) access road, in Igabi Local Government Area of the state on Tuesday and were repelled by troops. The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday in Kaduna. Aruwan said the vigilance personnel were attacked in an ambush on Tuesday night at Dande village, on their way from Damba-Kasaya in the Buruku, Chikun Local government area of the state. Those killed in the incident, according to the statement, include, Alison Musa, Dauda Audu and Ishaya Sarki, while
Ayuba Tanko and Doza Adamu sustained injuries. Seventeen people, including a traditional ruler and his son have been killed in the past three days by bandits in Zangon Kataf, Giwa, Igabi and along the Kaduna Abuja road. Aruwan said Governor Nasir El-Rufai had sent condolences to the families of the deceased personnel and prayed for the repose of their souls, while wishing those that sustained injuries speedy recovery. The statement said the governor also commended troops of the Operation Thunder Strike, for successfully dislodging bandits terrorising people along the Kaduna -Abuja road. Many people including nine students of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, were abducted along that road on Sunday afternoon. “The Governor has also commended land and air troops of Operation Thunder Strike for a successful operation around Kuku area, at the Kagarko local government axis of Kaduna-Abuja Road. “The Governor said he received with gratitude, information that the first air strikes hit some of the target structures and neutralized some of the bandits, while the second wave of attacks was executed by a Nigerian Air Force helicopter gunships which provided close air support to the troops on the ground as they advanced from Kagarko via Kuku into the bandits’ enclave”, the statement said. Aruwan said citizens of the state will continue to be informed of the security situation and appealed for vigilance and prompt reporting of suspicious movements and activities to the security agencies or through the security operations room numbers: 09034000060, 08170189999 and e-mail address: Internal.Security@kdsg.gov.ng