By Emma Okonji The Co-Founder and the Chief Operating Officer of Digital Encode Limited, Dr. Peter Adewale Obadare has said no company is totally immune against cyber-attacks, no matter the state of readiness and resilience of the network. The Information Technology expert noted that the high dependency on the internet and adoption of digital transformation has led to the increase in cybercriminal activities. Addressing the issue of cyber-attacks, Obadare stressed that cyber security readiness and resilience were mere processes and journey, but not a destination. The Digital Encode boss stated this at the 2020 National Information Technology Reporters’ Association (NITRA) webinar held recently. According to him, “Cybercrime damages are projected to cost the world over $6 trillion annually in 2021, up from $3 trillion in 2015.” Speaking on the biggest threat to enterprise organisation, Obadare stated that findings had shown that at every 11 seconds, businesses will fall victim to a ransomware attack in 2021.
“More than 90 per cent of successful hacks and data breaches steam from phishing scams. Most frequent attack methods are social engineering, advanced persistent threats, unpatched ransomware, he said.
Obadare also stressed that cyber security/fraud is a discussion topic for the board and not for the data centre alone. Backing up his claim, he explained that 60 per cent of small businesses that suffer cyber-attack are out of business within six months. He also highlighted that 53 per cent security personnel believed that their enterprise will experience a cyber-attack in the next 12 months. While urging vigilance, he said the survey revealed that 87 per cent believed that the rapid shift to work from home will increase the risk of data privacy and protection issues. “Also, 54 per cent believe will take advantage of the pandemic to disrupt organisation. However, 51 per cent, which is about only half of the population are highly confident in their security team to detect and respond to cyber threats during the pandemic. Although much is at stake, Obadare expressed worries that the confidence level is low. Speaking further, he urged and advised organisations to invest in people and process and not only in technology, in an effort to collectively combat the looming threat. He recommended that for safety in the cyberspace, organisations must address cyber security readiness and resilience on a number of dimensions so as to understand the big picture, while integrating and coordinating all operational risk management activities. He added that it was important that the executive team develop a risk intelligence quotient and also build an Intelligent Security Operations Center (SOC), based on Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML).