In the realm of excellence and health, there is a tremendous developing revenue in products and services that praise the embodiment of Africa’s unique natural resources and ingredients, while simultaneously saddling conventional aptitudes and most recent information in the magnificence and wellbeing industry. Top beauty entrepreneur, Juliet Goodman, is a young passionate cosmetologist who has turned the skin care business into a profitable venture. She is the founder of the premium beauty brand 1303 Organic Therapy, which has quickly become a preferred brand for Nigerian women home and abroad. Juliet explains that her interest in the beauty and wellness industry was born out of the desire to put a smile on the faces of every beauty enthusiast, bringing back their confidence and creating room for self love. She believes that all skin tones are beautifully made and can be properly nurtured with her amazing range of skin care products. “I started way back in school,” she explained. “After school I got married and needed to establish my own business. In my quest to fulfill my passion for making people happy, I decided to go into skin care formulations, because through skin care products the needs and beauty goals of people are met and they are happy once they’re getting value for their money. Also, I was dark-skinned and I needed something to make my skin pop, so I kept trying a range of products which resulted negatively in skin discoloration. So I resorted to finding something that would enhance my skin whilst at the same time maintain my skin tone. This was what motivated me to go into formulation of skin care products that work for all types of skin – dark skin, light skin, etc. “I am the first skincare therapist to bring about the idea that skin care products should be natural and almost edible, because I make my products with so much love, and giving them body milks like whitening, lightening, and chocolate body milks,” she narrated. Juliet also shared insights about some of the major skin problems faced by almost everyone, citing Acne, stretch marks and hyperpigmentation. She also explains how these skin problems affect individuals and how her brand is helping people manage their skin care needs. “For acne, it can be caused by several factors ranging from hormonal imbalance, heriditory, dirty environment, oily skin and not using the right products. I would say my brand has been able to help every person win their confidence and fight against acne issues. We formulate good skincare products ranging from cleansing, toning, rejuvenating and moisturizing products. We know the exact formulation to help tackle your acne problems and we keep enhancing our products and services to make sure we give the best. We have so many reviews from clients who have used our acne product and are well pleased with the results. “Stretch marks: Stretch mark happens as a result of skin stretch, stress level on the skin and even the cortisone level of the skin. A cortisone level is a hormone produced by the adrenal glands which weakens the elastic fibers of the skin resulting in stretches. Stretch marks can also be caused by using Cortiosteriod medication for skin itching and blisters. Losing and adding weight can also cause stretch marks, especially being over weighted or obesed. After an extensive research on the causes of stretch marks, we came up with a good formulation that helps in clearing off stretch marks. “Hyperpigmentation: This is a tensed topic but I can tell you for sure that we have produced the best product for skin hyperpigmentation. Hyperpigmentation is caused by excess production of melanin. Melanin is a natural pigment of the skin but some factors can excessively increase its production, like the hormonal imbalance. This is a major worry for most people because of the environment and oxidative stress around us. We have also created good formulation for hyperpigmentation which will help balance your melanin production and guarantee an even-toned skin. I can literally tell you I work very hard to make these products for the love of good skincare products and the love of good skin.” Juliet has so many achievements to show for her hard work and commitment to providing quality products. Her beauty brand, 1303 Organic Therapy boasts of a complete line of lifestyle and skin care products that enhance confidence and inner peace for Nigerian and by extension, African women. Her brand is also recognised for practicable help tips that educate people on how to get the best out of their beauty products. Juliet is a graduate of the University of Lagos (UNILAG). She hails from Anambra State but grew up in Lagos where she attended Our Lady of Apostles Secondary School and Jubril Martins Grammar School. She is happily married and blessed with two kids.