Managing Director of NatCom Development & Investment Limited, now trading as Ntel, Mr. Babatunde Omotoba, has been elected as a distinguished fellow of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE). With the election, the former Minister of Aviation, becomes one of the very rare Nigerians to have double fellowship in two divergent or unrelated fields, namely that of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA) and Nigerian Society of Engineers (FNSE). Omotoba is seasoned engineer and an investment professional with over 30 years of infrastructural development, construction, structural engineering, private equity, financing, due diligence, auditing, consulting, aviation, telecoms, and general management experience. A well sought-after speaker both at home and abroad, Omotoba holds a Bachelor of Engineering degree in Civil Engineering from the University of Benin. The honour comes 30 years after he graduated with a first class in civil engineering. He also holds an MBA from Kellogg School of Management, North-western University (USA), with majors in finance, entrepreneurship, management strategy and real estate. A COREN registered engineer, he’s a member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN). In 2008, at the age of 39 years, he was appointed Minister of Aviation and member, where he executed various safety-critical aviation projects including the Total Radar Coverage of the Nigerian Airspace (“TRACON”) for the first time in 29 years. He also implemented the FAA IASA Category One Certification of Nigerian Airports and served on the governing councils of the National Council on Privatisation (NCP) and National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). A holder of Series 7 and Series 63 Professional licences, Omotoba is a winner of 16 academic and professional prizes and awards. The awards include the Dean’s award, best engineering graduate (1990); valedictorian – nominated as best graduate from University of Benin in 1988/89 and 1989/90 sessions. He also won first prize in the May 1996 professional examination I of ICAN, first prize in quantitative analysis and third prize overall in May 1995 ICAN foundation examinations. He received the Kauffman Foundation’s Grant for Entrepreneurial Leadership; made the Kellogg Dean’s honours list for outstanding academic achievements, won a Kellogg scholarship and in April 2009, received the ICAN merit award for lifetime achievement.