Vanessa Obioha In a challenging year riddled with uncertainties, MultiChoice digital terrestrial television, GOtv, has continued to provide entertainment to families through its myriad of programmes. In its nine years of existence, the Pay-TV platform has shown unwavering commitment to providing subscribers with the best of entertainment, news and sports at affordable prices that suit lifestyles. Take, for instance, the lockdown period of the pandemic when many depended on TV content to overcome the ennui, anxiety and uncertainty that surrounded the novel coronavirus. The platform rose to the occasion by ensuring subscribers were entertained through the ‘Friday Turn Up’ and ‘Owambe Saturday’. Both shows were meticulously tailored to meet the entertainment demands of subscribers as they adjusted to the lockdown rules. While ‘Turn Up Friday’ brought energetic and enthralling performances by various DJs, dancers and the host Dotun, redolent of a club setting, Owambe Saturday, hosted by radio host, Steve Onu featured three-hour live music performances from eclectic live bands and famous music stars like Flavour and Sir Shina Peters. Now, both shows which aired for 10 weeks will be making a return this month. Multichoice Nigeria made the announcement recently as it unveiled plans for the festive period. “As we get closer to the festive season, we keep all customers at the heart of everything we do,” said the Chief Executive Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria, John Ugbe. “And that explains why we have an amazing lineup of content on DStv and GOtv to bring families together, to strengthen the bond between them and showcase some of the most exciting and entertaining programmes that reflects who we are as Africans and indeed, as Nigerians. Our content is local and original, steep in our culture, values and traditions and there’s no better time to give these content to our subscribers than now.” The company plans to reward 1.5 million subscribers with instant gifts and bouquet upgrades. It disclosed that from November 21, prospective subscribers of GOtv will enjoy an 11.6 per cent decrease in the price of decoders. The GOtv decoder, antenna and a monthly subscription of GOtv Jolli are now at a reduced price of N8,400 while DStv HD decoder, dish and a month Compact subscription go for N18,600. A peek into the programme schedule shows exciting programmes that will keep the family entertained during the festive period. For instance, GOtv Jolli package offers over 60 channels that cut across entertainment, lifestyle and sports. Telenovela lovers will find passionate stories on Telemundo (channel 14), Zee World (channel 25) and Eva+ (channel 13). However, if they want an extra dose of these captivating stories, they will have to upgrade to GOtv Max which offers an additional channel: Star Life (channel 23). On the sports lineup, GOtv Sports fans can look forward to an exciting festive season with live football action from La Liga; the 21st edition of GOtv Boxing Night on Friday, November 27; and WWE Survivor Series on Sunday, November 29. DStv subscribers are not left out in the entertainment spree, as they can likewise catch all the actions on European football league, La Liga, Bahrain and Abu Dhabi Grand Prix and the NBA. On the entertainment and lifestyle channels, subscribers can enjoy the ‘Kardashian Kristmas’ special on E! Entertainment (channel 26); while BET (channel 21) offers a week of Christmas movies from December 21 to 27. Also on TNT Africa (channel 16) is the Christmas Day special with ‘The Best Man’ and ‘The Best Man Holiday’ movies. Nollywood lovers can catch the latest local entertainment on Africa Magic channels, including the new cooking show ‘Jollof With Me’ ― a hybrid cooking show where media personality Nancy Isime hosts friends over a meal and some fun, light-hearted discussions. ‘Kidz Klub Festival’ on M-Net Movies 4 (GOtv Max channel 3) and holiday stunts on Cartoon Network, Da Vinci and Nickelodeon bring all the fun for children. Furthermore, MultiChoice announced that its popup holiday channel (DStv 198, GOtv plus 29) will begin airing on December 20, to showcase colourful festivals and events held towards the end of the year. Apart from the exciting programme lineup, the GOtv platform app is also available for customers to make subscription payments, reconnect, upgrade their bouquets, and clear error codes. As a proudly Nigerian brand, GOtv unveiled Big Brother Naija Lockdown season winner, Olamilekan Agbeleshe, aka Laycon, as the brand ambassador. Chief Customer Care Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria, Martin Mabutho, revealed that Laycon’s claim to the title was due to his humility. “We could have picked anybody,” Mabutho said, hinting at the tight race between those considered for an ambassadorial role. “We are a brand that is at the centre of families, we cannot be associated with brand ambassadors that cannot live up to our core values.” Laycon kicked off a GOtv city tour this month in Abeokuta, Enugu, Uyo, Abuja and Lagos.