John Shiklam in Kaduna The District Head of Gidan Zaki, Zangon Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State, Mr. Haruna Kuye, and his son, Destiny, have been killed by gunmen. Two people were also said to have been killed while some were abducted following attacks by bandits on Fatika, Kaya and Yakawada villages in Giwa Local Government Area of the state. The Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday. He said Kuye and his son were killed in the early hours of Tuesday when gunmen invaded their residence. The incident came less than 24 hours after bandits killed 11 people in Albasu community in Igabi Local Government Area of the state on Monday. Aruwan said the military operation code named “Operation Safe Haven” informed the Kaduna State Government of the killings in Zangon Kataf. The statement added that the wife of the district head sustained injuries from machete cuts, while the daughter had a gunshot wound on her finger. “The security report further stated that the act was carried out by about five men wielding AK-47 rifles and machetes, who also tried to burn the house and a vehicle” Aruwan said, adding that: “Three empty cases and a live round of 7.62mm special ammunition were recovered at the scene of the incident.” The statement said: “Troops in collaboration with other security agencies are carrying out investigations and trailing the assailants.” Aruwan said: “Governor Nasir El-Rufai has condemned the killings as evil and violation of the sanctity of the human lives by enemies of peace who must be fished out and made to face the wrath of the law. “The governor, who condoled with the Kuye family and the Atyap Traditional Council, prayed for the repose of the souls of the District Head and his son.” He said El-Rufai praised the late Haruna Kuye for his contributions to the peace-building efforts in Zangon-Kataf. “The governor has directed the Commissioner of Police and Director of the Department of State Services to team up with the military forces on the ground to ensure diligent investigations,” the statement said. Aruwan further disclosed that: “Security agencies have also reported attacks in Giwa LGA where armed bandits attacked Fatika, Kaya and Yakawada villages. Two persons were killed and some kidnapped.”