By Onuminya Innocent in Sokoto The Sokoto State Government has said that it will commence a youths entrepreneurial programme across the state in December 2020. Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, who was named the ‘The Golden Doyen of Nigerian Youths’ by the National Youths Association of Nigeria (NYCN), stated this at the maiden celebration of the 2020 African National Youth Day organized by the NYCN in collaboration with the government of Sokoto State. The governor said at the event held at the Sultan Maccido Institute of Qur’an and General Study that the programme will be executed by his office and shall run for a pilot period of three months, after which it will run concurrently up to the end of his administration. Pointing out that the programme is aimed at further empowering the teeming youths in the state, some of whom are already members of the state executive council and the public service, Tambuwal said already lots of youths empowerment programmes are currently being undertaken by the state Ministry of Youth and Sports Development to boost economic programmes by seeking out youth with exceptional skills that will be given special attention and motivation. He further explained that the state government is in the process of establishing a department of Women and Youth Empowerment on Technological Incubation under the Ministry of Science and Technology. Similarly, Tambuwal said more youths will also be trained on governance and executive practices so that they will be better prepared for leadership and responsibility. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari and African leaders for recognizing the day for the youths in Africa and Nigeria. According to him, the day is unique and special, being the first recorded African Youth Day to be commemorated at a critical period of Nigeria and continental history when the youths are demanding good governance. He reiterated the government’s commitment to the welfare and well being of the youth who he described as the vanguards of change and future leaders. On sports development in the state, the governor said his administration is currently constructing a world class Sports Arena, and Indoor Sports Hall which will accommodate all types of sporting activities that will adequately strengthen young men and women to compete on the global stage. Appealing to the youth in Nigeria and Africa to endeavour to live in peace with one another, the governor said he was happy when he saw a number of youths that graced the occasion from the length and breadth of the country, adding that nobody can say that the Nigerian Project is not working. ”The Nigerian Project can work and shall work. It is our responsibility to get Nigeria working. We can join hands together to make Nigeria work. It can be done and it can be achieved. I assure Nigerians that our country will become the pride of the black people and that of the African continent,” Tambuwal added Commending the youth in the state for restraining themselves during the #EndSARS protest, the governor said the protest is a wake up call to all Nigerians which lesson should not be forgotten. In his remarks, the Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Youth and Student Matters, Hon. Nasir Adhama, who was represented by Dr Aminu Abdullahi, said the federal government has introduced a youth empowerment scheme where 774,000 youth across the country will be trained in various trade. In his address, the President of the NYCN, Ambassador Sukubo Sara-Igbe Sukubo, adopted the ‘5 of 5’ demands that was presented to the federal government as the official position of Nigerian youths for the restoration of trust and cooperation between government and the youths after the recent EndSARS protest.