The founder, Flying Doctors Healthcare Investment Company, Dr. Ola Brown, has launched a new book titled: ‘Economics, Banking and Finance in Emerging Markets’. A statement by the group said in pursuit of further education in Finance and Economic Policy, Brown chose to focus her attention on contextualizing theories created for more affluent markets and this led to the publication of her fourth book. The statement said emerging markets and economies were more nuanced and complex than available scholarly resources fully articulate. The statement further explained that without adequate local knowledge of the complexities in developing economies, the attempt to transfer economic theories and business practices which have been successful in richer countries have turned out to be disastrousmost times. Speaking during the virtual launch of the book, Brown said the purpose of the book was directed towards the dire need to focus on emerging markets, adding that there is very little information on emerging markets, despite its complexity. She expressed confidence that the book and similar books written by Nigerians, Kenyans, Bangladeshis and Indians would begin to refocus the world on the complexity of entrepreneurship and policymaking in emerging markets. According to her, “My personal journey started when I left medical school, but really wanted to make an impact in African healthcare. The death of my sister in Nigeria at just 12 years old had made me acutely and painfully aware of the challenges with African healthcare systems. I became determined to try to be part of the solution. But I began to find it increasingly difficult to balance a medical practice with running a growing business. So, after confiding in Dr. Sonny Kuku the first ever Nigerian doctor to list his company on the Nigerian stock exchange and become chairman of one of Africa’s largest banks, I gave up my medical license voluntarily and committed fully to the impact, investment and business journey.” The Group Chief Executive Officer, Emerging Africa Capital Group, Toyin Sanni, said Ola educates her readers in plain language about economics, finance and banking concepts. She disclosed that she uses the book to also challenge them to make more informed decisions based on their knowledge of the interplay between different market forces.” She further stated: “I thank and congratulate Dr. Ola Brown on her great work and wholly recommend her book to anyone who wants to know more or get fresh perspectives on this topic. I urge everyone to think upon, talk about, and more importantly do something about developing our economy and improving the lot not only for ourselves, but also of the next Nigerian coming down the lane.” On his part, the Book Reader, Sindy Foster, said: “There are so many topics that will directly impact you. It is so topical in terms of the Nigerian economy and the existence that we live daily. You may think that economics is a dry topic; it is not if you live in Nigeria. You have a civil responsibility to educate yourself on the functioning or otherwise of the Nigerian system.” The statement posited that the virtual book launch event included a panel session where the subjects of minimum wage, savings in the economy, monetary and credit policies were discussed extensively. It added that the panel was moderated by Tunji Andrews, including Director and Practice Lead, Eurasia Group, Amaka Anku, and Economist at FBN Quest, Chioma Egwim. It disclosed that adopting a creative writing style, the free-to-download economics, banking and finance in emerging markets book simplifies complex theories and provided everyday examples to make it more relatable. The statement pointed out that the book, divided into 4 sections on macroeconomics, microeconomics, the IMF and Banking and Finance, also includes a ‘how to read this book guide,’ explainers and a beautifully rendered sketch note that provides a graphic summary of each section.