Ugo Aliogo
The Association of Sustainability Professionals of Nigeria (ASPN) has been inaugurated.
Speaking during the virtual inauguration with the theme: ‘Professionalising Sustainability for Inclusive Development’ recently, the President, ASPN, Prof. Kenneth Amaeshi, said the ceremony was a milestone moment while commending the tremendous work of the Board of Trustees (BoT) and directorate members. He stated that the event and the association have been a collective effort by committed and resilient sustainability professionals in Nigeria.
Amaeshi, further explained that the thinking behind the association has been over a decade and it was formalised and concretised in August 2019. According to him, “The primary purpose of the association is to establish a league of sustainability professionals with expert knowledge in the broad areas of sustainability. “We will support them to be the best they can for their organisations, Nigeria, and Africa by setting standards for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability practice.
“We will support them in building capacity for sustainability professionals through certification, knowledge sharing and peer learning. “We will promote professionalism. We will facilitate collaboration and partnership among professionals for greater reach and impact. We will unify the diverse groups of sustainability professionals in the country. “I believe today is an exciting and important day that sets our objectives in motion; a day that marks the beginning of an impactful era. It is hoped that the Association will bring a fresh and innovative approach to sustainability; and we look forward with considerable enthusiasm to working with you all.” In his keynote address, the Resident Representative in Nigeria, United Nations Development Programme, Mr. Mo Yahya, said theme of the event was timely, stating that development framework tend to focus more on sustainable development, since the adoption of the agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development Goal (SDG).