Obinna Chima Access Bank Plc has expressed concern about the inconvenience some of its customers whose accounts were frozen due to their involvement in the recent protest against police brutality. The bank therefore assured the affected customers that it would play its part to ensure that they had access to their “accounts as quickly as possible.” In a statement yesterday, the financial institution restated its commitment to deliver superior service to its customers.
The statement followed an online campaign for customers to boycott the commercial bank due to the freezing of accounts of about eight persons involved in the #EndSARS protest, due to a court order obtained by the Central Bank of Nigeria. However, the bank stated: “We want to express our sympathy for the inconvenience that eight of our customers are going through due to the restrictions on their accounts as mandated by a federal court order. We are eager for this to be resolved as soon as possible.” Furthermore, the bank noted that: “It is common knowledge that we and the entire banking industry are regulated entities and therefore operate under the authority of our regulators and law enforcement agencies. As such we are compelled to comply with regulatory directives. “While acknowledging the concern of all well-meaning parties, we urge that enquiries and views be channelled to the relevant regulatory and judicial agencies where the matter is receiving attention. It is therefore surprising that some individuals still choose to target Access Bank in a negative manner despite not being the source of the action.” It also pointed out that it had always been at the forefront of innovative efforts in support of the development of the country, saying it embraced the role because it was also, “the largest employer of labour – a sizable number of which are youth.” “Access Bank has always led the way with regard to support for young Nigerians in terms of capacity building and development of SMEs. Recall that Access Bank launched an initiative to boost the creative industry with loan facilities aimed at capacity building and employment for individuals and businesses in movie production and distribution, fashion, IT and music. “Our commitment also extends to the support of small business owners through initiatives that provide access to finance for growth and expansion.
We continue to be concerned by the inconvenience that our affected customers are experiencing. We stand ready to play our part to remedy the situation and have them using their accounts as quickly as possible,” the statement added.