By Ibrahim Oyewale The National President of the Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COESU), Dr. Nuhu Ogirima has cautioned all members to avoid any act that will factionalise the union in order to move forward and achieve its aims and objectives. Ogirima, who said this during the inauguration of newly elected officers to pilot the affairs of the union for the next four years, at the College Auditorium, Federal College of Education, Okene recently, said the members would not be allowed to work at cross purposes in order to make the union sronger. He pointed out that the Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union is not a political party, stressing that the election has come and gone where there was opposition, winner and now there is need to work together as formidable team to achieve the union’s objectives. “COESU is not a political party. We cannot afford factionalisation of the union. COESU is COESU, no progressive, no retrogressive camps. Therefore you must work together as a team to move the union forward. In his remarks, the Provost, Federal College of Education, Dr. Umar Hassan commended the COESU Electoral Committee for the job well done, adding that the election was conducted in a peaceful, free and fair atmosphere. The provost, who was represented by the Deputy Provost, Dr. Suleiman Habibat, also lauded the out-going exective council for the rancour-free relationship between the institution management and COESU in the past four years. Hassan stated that the door of the college management is open and ready to work together to move FCE, Okene to a greater height. The outgone Chairman of COESU, Owa Bamidele, thanked the members for their support and the opportunity to serve in that capicity, commeding the management for the wonderful working relationship in the last four years. Responding, the new Chairman, Japa Mohammed, who spoke on behalf of the executive council, promised not to let the members of COESU, FCE Chapter down, promising to have a robust relationship with the institution management to take the college to the next level. Those inaugurated as members of the new executive council, COESU, FCE, Okene are Japa Mohammed Idris as Chairman; Uzorma Jane, Vice- Chairman; Ibikunle S, Sectretary; Okatahi A, Assistant Secretary; Achanyan J.S, Finacial Secretary; Yakubu N.S, Auditor; Adams Ohiare PRO; Adams Zubar, Director of Socials; Owa Bamidele, ex-Officio I; and Azeez Oricha.