The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) said it has commenced
the distribution of smart electricity meters to its customers. The scheme was simultaneously launched in Kano, Kaduna, Ikeja and the
EKEDC franchise areas. In a statement signed by the General Manager, Corporate
Communications, EKEDC, Godwin Idemudia, the Disco kick-started the
distribution of its electricity meters at the Surulere axis, one of
the areas within its distribution network in Lagos. Speaking further, Idemudia said the National Mass Metering Programme
(NMMP) was in fulfilment of the federal government’s and the Discos
commitments to close the metering gap in the country and enhance the
revenue collection of the distribution companies. He said under the new arrangement distribution companies are expected
to go from location to location with their respective Meter Asset
Providers to provide and install meters for their customers. Eko Electricity was expected to roll-out over 100,000 meters in the
first phase of the programme from the locally manufactured companies
such as Mojec International Limited and Momas Meter manufacturing
company. Idemudia disclosed that the National Mass Metering Program (NMMP)
would increase Nigeria’s metering rate, eliminate estimated billing
and strengthen the local meter value chain by increasing local meter
manufacturing, assembly and deployment capacity. He added that the initiative would also reduce collection losses,
increase financial flows to achieve 100 per cent market remittance
obligations of the Discos and support Nigeria’s economic recovery by
creating jobs in the local meter value chain whilst also ensuring
customers only pay the exact value for their energy consumption. He revealed that key stakeholders to monitor the launch of the meter
distribution include Lagos State Government representatives, the
Senate Committee and House of Representative Chairmen on Power as well
as representatives of Organized Labour and Civil Society
Organizations. The National Mass Metering Programme (NNMP) is expected to roll out 6
million meters for all connection points on grid without meters over
the next 18 to 24 months and estimated to impact over 30 million
consumers nationwide.