Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19, Mr Boss Mustapha, will deliver the 8th anniversary lecture of Realnews Magazine this year, the news medium’s publishers have said. According to the organisation, the event which will take place on Thursday, November 19, at the Sheraton Hotel, Lagos, by 10 am is themed : “Managing the Covid-19 Global Pandemic in Africa: The Nigeria Experience.” Publisher of Realnews Magazine Online, Maureen Chigbo, said the choice of the 2020 topic was prompted by the devastating effect of the coronavirus global pandemic on every sector, including health, business and economy, among others and the spirited effort by the government to curtail the spread of the disease in the country. “Against all predictions that Africa will see millions of dead people in the streets as a result of Covid-19, this has not happened. The lecture is expected to reveal what African governments and Nigeria in particular, did to avoid deaths on a massive scale as predicted. “The fact remains that at present many Nigerians are still very sceptical about the management of the Covid-19 and its dire consequences in the country if not properly handled. “ Mustapha will be able to leverage on the lecture to tell the story of managing the pandemic as the chairman of the PTF directly to a vast audience from different works of life. “He will thereby be bringing government directly to the people and letting them in on the effort of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to transform the health sector. “Also, the lecture presents an opportunity for different health experts to share their experiences on health sector developments with a mix of the growing audience following Realnews Magazine services on various media platforms. The Lecture is expected to have massive positive impact on the society,”Chigbo added. She stated that like in previous occasions, it will also feature a stimulating panel discussion by health and economic experts with guaranteed audience participation. The company listed some of its past anniversary lecturers as President John Mahama, former President of Ghana (2019); Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Nigeria INEC, (2018) and Dr. Oby Ezekwesili, former Minister of Education and Vice President, World Bank (2017). It further mentioned Dr. Mohamed Ibn Chambas, Special Representative of the Secretary General and Head, United Nations Office for West Africa and the Sahel (2016); Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, former Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria, (2015), and Professor Maurice Iwu, former Chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission, (2014) as having spoken on different topics during the yearly event.