Goddy Egene
International interconnect carrier, Exchange Telecommunications Limited (Exchange Telecoms), has appointed Riaan Abdoll as its Chief Revenue Officer (CRO). The appointment became effective from November 2, 2020.
Commenting on the appointment, the Financial Controller of the company, Oluwatoyosi Adebakin, welcomed Abdoll to the company and expressed excitement over the recent award of the VAS Aggregator License by the National Communications Commission (NCC) to the company. “Riaan’s exceptional skill set will greatly add value to the company and we look forward to the amazing impact and commendable milestones ahead. Also, we are very excited about the new licence as it offers us an important opportunity to satisfy our customers in new ways. “Currently, Exchange Telecoms transits international calls originating from mobile network operators(MNO) networks in Nigeria to A-Z destinations abroad and with this new licence, we assure our customers of enhanced quality which further confirms our unwavering commitment and dedication to customer satisfaction. We also see this as a diversification of our business offerings and a pivot into the future,” she said. Adebanki said Riaan offers two decades of experience in key business-driver roles, with capability honed from many years of agile corporate leadership with a focus on growth, expansion, and innovation, as part of a functional operational agenda. “Through strategic foresight, drive, and determination, he’s delivered a sustained performance for Africa’s most successful multi-million dollar companies. Offering expertise across the emerging Middle East and Africa markets, Riaan is an effective commercial tactician adept at setting strategic direction, building culture, developing teams, and transforming business operations to support Board mandated objectives. “Riaan joined Terragon Group in 2019 as CRO and led a rapid expansion of new client acquisition. During his time at Terragon he led the Revenue & Customer Success teams to deliver world-class customer experience engagements for Nigeria’s largest brands (such as MTN, Access Bank, Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, Wema Bank Plc, Nigerian Breweries) and delivered over 500,000 new retail consumers. Terragon remains on track to 2x revenue in 2020. “Riaan knows what truly drives conversions, mobile customer acquisition and business expansion across Sub-Saharan Africa. He has successfully launched a leading Video-On-Demand (VOD) and Digital Media Distribution start-up in West Africa. He remains focused on expanding mobile technology services, purpose-built for Sub-Saharan Africa through partnerships that exploit fintech and technology innovations to maximise customer acquisition. Riaan built a $400 million mobile promotions business for some of the largest mobile operators in Africa such as MTN, Vodafone & Etisalat,” the company added. A conceptual and out-of-the-box thinker, Riaan is a strategist and innovator with robust expertise in the development of key operating strategies enabling both large and PE-backed TMT enterprises to thrive in turbulent economies and meet complex regulatory landscapes in worldwide markets.