After the conclusion of some of the fixtures in the 2022 AFCON qualifiers and the UEFA Nations Leagues, actions will return to European leagues this weekend as the 2020/21 Premier League, La Liga and Serie A seasons come on Live on SuperSport, the home of football. Manchester United will return to Premier League action by welcoming West Brom to Old Trafford on Saturday at 9pm. United defeated Everton 3-1 before the international break, but the 20-time champions are still sitting in a lowly 14th position. Their opponents, meanwhile, are slightly worse off and find themselves in the bottom three and still without a victory this season. The Red Devils do have some key concerns to deal with ahead of the match as Marcus Rashford is a doubt due to a shoulder problem. The match will be live on SS Football (channel 31). Also, on Saturday, Aston Villa will face Brighton at 4pm, also on SS Football. Watch football in the language you understand on SuperSport, the only place to get English commentary from the legendary La Liga. The top pick of fixtures for this round of La Liga action sees Atletico Madrid host Barcelona at the Wanda Metropolitano Stadium on the evening of Saturday 21 November at 9pmlive on SS La Liga (channel 32). While the Rojiblancos have looked their usual gritty and resilient selves, the Blaugrana have been inconsistent and unpredictable. This has put the pressure squarely on Barca coach, Ronald Koeman, who needs his top players – such as Lionel Messi – to step up their games and drag the Catalan giants towards the top of La Liga’s standings. Atletico, meanwhile, can be excited about the form of rising star Joao Felix. The 20-year-old Portuguese star is starting to look like the real deal after a somewhat underwhelming 2019-20 in Madrid. Other La Liga matches to look out for this weekend is the clash between Osasuna and Huesca on Friday 20 November at 9pm on SS La Liga and SS Football. More on Saturday is Villarreal vs Real Madrid at 4:15pm and Sevilla vs Celta Vigo at 6:30pm, both on SS La Liga (channel 32). On Sunday 22 November, La Liga continues on GOtv with Granada vs Valladolid at 6:30pm live on SS La Liga and SS Football (channel 32&31). As far as Serie A is concerned, the top clash this weekend sees Napoli host Milan at Stadio San Paulo on the evening of Sunday 22 November, at 8:45pm on SS Select 1 (channel 33). These two title hopefuls will feature some major African talent, including Kalidou Koulibaly, Ismael Bennacer, Franck Kessie and Nigeria’s Victor Osimhen if he has overcome the shoulder injury he copped playing against Sierra Leone in Benin City last Friday. On Saturday, the Italian Serie A will see matches between Sepzia and Atlanta at 6pm on SS Select 1 and SS Football (channel 33&31) and Juventus vs Cagliari at 8:45pm on SS Select 1 (channel 33). More on Sunday 22 November on Serie A is Fiorentina vs Benevento at 12:30pm on SS Select 1(channel33). Inter Milan is set to clash with Torino at 3pm on SS Select 1(channel 33), while Sampdoria faces Bologna at 3pm on SS Football (channel 31)