By Kingsley Nwezeh A delegation of the forum of retired directors of the Department of State Services (DSS) yesterday paid a solidarity visit to the Director- General, DSS, Alhaji Yusuf Magaji Bichi. Led by the duo of Chief J.O. Obuseh and Barrister Peter Egure, the delegation stated that the visit was to identify with the DG and commend him for his sterling leadership. The forum stated that it had taken keen interest in the affairs of the service and had remained impressed with the way he had handled issues including staff welfare and national security. A statement issued by the Spokesman of DSS, Dr Peter Afunanya, said the group noted that the morale of staff was at its peak and commended the DG for the noble achievement. It called on its members and serving personnel to support the DG to surmount security challenges confronting the nation.
It described him as a man with robust experience and a core professional whose humility and dedication to duty is public knowledge. The DG was therefore advised not to be distracted by mischief makers whose stock in trade was to undermine the integrity of the service and its management team. He was also urged to remain focused, determined and selfless in his commitment in moving the DSS forward. The visiting members pledged their loyalty and support to the DG and the nation. In his response, the DG thanked them for the visit and stated that the solidarity had renewed his resolve for greater service to the country and the DSS. He noted that in line with the mandate of the service, his leadership would continue to ensure that threats and crimes against the internal security of Nigeria were contained so that law abiding citizens could pursue their legitimate businesses.
He noted that security management should be the concern of all and sundry and that it was in this regard that he had adopted stakeholder collaboration as a model. He assured the forum of his management’s dedication to its welfare. “I am here today to serve. I will remain professional in the discharge of my responsibility and ensure that everyone is treated without bias. I will ensure the service accomplishes its mandate of detection and prevention of crime against the internal security of Nigeria. I call on all retired and serving personnel to be dedicated to taking the service to greater heights. We are aware of the challenges ahead but only a unity of purpose will help us overcome them”, he said, adding that “it is only if and when we collaborate that we can move the service and the nation forward. “All hands must be on deck for us to defeat the plans of law breakers. I thank you for coming”.