Ibrahim Oyewale in Lokoja Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Kogi State chapter, has commended the Minister of State for Health, Senator Mamora Olorunibe, for his relentless effort which it said led to the reopening of the Federal Medical Centre(FMC) in Lokoja, which was shut down six months ago. The commendation was contained in a statement jointly signed by the state Chairman of NMA, Dr. Oyiguh S.Omakoji, and his Secretary, Dr. Fomotele Tolorunju, a copy of which was made available to journalists in Lokoja yesterday. The association expressed the gratitude of its members to the minister for his bold steps which it said had allowed voice of reason to prevail, and effect the decision to reopen the health institution. According to the statement, “We wish to thankfully express the joy of our members to you that the Federal Medical Centre, Lokoja, is finally opened to receive patients. “We appreciate all your efforts in ensuring a peaceful resolution of the impasse that resulted in the closure of the institution.” While the NMA noted that the members of their association in the said tertiary health centre have also expressed their appreciation to the minister for the opportunity given to them to attend promotion interview for this year, it stressed that its members were eagerly waiting for the embargo on shutdown of the facility to be lifted, as they are in high spirit to resume work and offer their services to benefit of the patients. The NMA, therefore, stated that with such heartwarming, and the unlocking order of the FMC facility by the minister, the members of the association at the Centre “can now begin to offer services that will bring smiles to the faces of patients.” The workers of the medical institution were seen clearing their premises and dusting off their equipment last Friday in readiness to open the facility to the members of the public as from today. The federal government-owned medical centre in Lokoja was shut down six months ago when hoodlums suspected to be thugs invaded the facility, vandalised their equipment and carted away some valuables of the hospital.