By Peter Uzoho OVH Energy Marketing has restated its commitment to ensuring the safety of life and property of all stakeholders in its area of operation. The Chief Executive Officer of OVH Energy, Mr. Huub Stokman, stated this in a statement, following the fire incident that occurred at the company’s terminal in Apapa, Lagos, recently. “As a responsible corporate citizen our priority is the safety of life and property of all stakeholders. We are committed to a goal of zero health and safety incident, so we have commenced immediate investigation of the cause of the fire,” Stokman said.
Informing members of the public and the residents of Apapa that the fire had been put out, he appreciated all stakeholders for their collaborative efforts in managing the incident. According to Stokman, “OVH Energy, owners of the Apapa petroleum products storage facility, the subject of the ongoing fire incident, hereby inform the Apapa residents and general public that the fire was put off at 04:43 am on Saturday, 7th November. “We wish to express our sincerest appreciation to all stakeholders and individuals who contributed to the timely management and extinguishing of the fire incident at OVH Energy terminal 1, at Apapa, Lagos”.
He commended the invaluable efforts and support of several agencies and organisations whose collboration helped to put the situation under control. They included the Federal Fire Service; Adova Plc; the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA); Lagos State Fire Service; 11 Plc; MRS; and United Bank for Africa (UBA). Others were the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA); Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA;) Julius Berger; Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC); Nigerian Independent Petroleum Company (NIPCO); and the National Petroleum Investment Management Services (NAPIMS), an arm of the NNPC. Also on the list of organisations that were appreciated for helping out during the incident were “Folawiyo Energy Limited; Total Nigeria Plc; HOGL Energy Limited, Nigerian Army; Nigerian Navy; Nigerian Police; Union and our host communities in the management of the outbreak. “To the general public who contributed in one way or the other in extinguishing the outbreak, accept our deepest appreciation”.