By Segun Awofadeji The Director General, National Institute for Hospitality and Tourism (NIHOTOUR), Alhaji Nura Kangiwa has reiterated his commitment towards repositioning the institute for better training and service delivery of manpower in the tourism industry. While stating that the institute will ensure high quality training of personnel that conforms to international standards so as to achieve better service delivery in the industry in line with best practice, he urged stakeholders in the industry to imbibe the culture of training and retraining of its personnel for maximum productivity. Kangiwa stated this in his remarks during the closing ceremony of a two-day training programme for tour guides, organised by the NIHOTOUR in Bauchi. According to him, capacity building for performance enhancement and competence is vital to the success of a vibrant and enduring tourism industry. The director general, who was represented by the Director, Public Relations of the institute, Alhaji Ahmed Sule, reiterated that “manpower development is a vital ingredient to qualitative tourism development. NIHOTOUR will continue to play a significant role in this direction.” He added: “Your presence here today is indicative of the importance you attached to training as an indispensable catalyst for growth and development, and in particular, towards the evolution of a vibrant tourism sector in the state.” He called on operators in both the public and private sectors of the industry to avail themselves of courses and training programmes in the institute to enhance their skills and knowledge for the growth and development of the Nigerian tourism industry. Also speaking, the state Commissioner for Commerce and Tourism, Dr. Asamau Giade said Bauchi State is blessed with tourist attractions like the famous Yankari Games Reserve, Marshall Caves, Sumo and Lame Burra Wildlife Parks, Tungan Dutse popular for the ancient engraving on the rocks, and the former Prime Minister, late Abubakar Tafawa Balewa’s tomb, among others. To this end, the commissioner said the role of the tour guides is important to project these top destination sites and the image of the state. Represented by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Alh aji Ali Babayo, the commissioner said the training will improve the knowledge and communication skills of the tour guides, as well as equip them with techniques for planning and preparing a tour. She added that the state government has keyed into the culture and tourism sector to serve as another means of revenue generation for the state. She commended the management of NIHOTOUR for organising the training in the state, saying that the state government will continue to partner the institute for the growth and development of the tourism industry in the state and the country in general. In their separate remarks the Chief Trainer/HOD Tourism Studies at the institute, Edwin Enenta and the Zonal Coordinator, NIHOTOUR Bauchi Campus, Mr. Ibrahim Tanko said participants demonstrated high level of cooperation, and hoped they will use the skills acquired at the training to promote tourism in the state. An elated Tanko said the tour guides are expected to provide quality services to visitors in order to meet their expectations, pointing out that the training is an important part of giving every visitor to Bauchi a great experience.