By Francis Sardauna A former Governor of Katsina State, Ibrahim Shehu Shema, on Sunday said he has no intention of defecting to the All Progressives Party (APC) or any political party for that matter. Speaking with journalists in Katsina after the inauguration of the state Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Caucus and Elders Committees, Shema debunked the rumour making the rounds that his photograph with the current Governor, Alhaji Aminu Bello Masari, has political connotation. A picture of the former governor and his successor, which was taken on Saturday during the installation of Col. AbdulAziz Musa Yar’Adua (rtd) as Mutawallen Katsina, at the palace of the Emir of Katsina, has been trending on social media. The photograph had triggered speculation that the former governor was planning to defect to the APC. Shema explained that the photograph was just a brotherhood affair, insisting that he would remain in PDP and work for the betterment of the party in the forthcoming general election. According to him, “It was a picture taken at an event at the emir’s palace and that is what it is. It is a picture; it has no political connotation. I have no intention to decamp to any political party.” He, however, called for the reorganisation of the nation’s security architecture, saying that this will make the country to overcome her security challenges orchestrated by insurgents and bandits. He said: “Nigerians must come together because security cannot be the responsibility of just government. It is the responsibility of both government and the govern. So there must be synergy and the security agencies must equally work together. “We need to rejig our security architecture because things are not working the way it should be. Therefore, the government is been advised at all levels to rejig the security architecture and strategies to overcome the current security challenges.” On his part, the state PDP Chairman, Hon. Salisu Yusuf majigiri, said the inauguration of the state Caucus and Elders Committees was in line with the party’s constitution, adding that members of the committee will work assiduously for PDP to reclaim the seat of power come 2023. He called on PDP stalwarts and other supporters of the party to be united, saying development and harmonious coexistence could not be achieved in an atmosphere of chaos and acrimony.