Rebecca Ejifoma The EPIC Shift Edition, hosted by IMMERSE Coaching Company, is set to host its bi-annual Live Awake Conference virtually from Friday, November 20 to Saturday, 21 this year. Some of the keynote Speakers are: Personal Transformation Coach and Founder, IMMERSE Coaching Company, Debola Deji-Kurunmi; former Senator of Bermuda, Dr. Cindy Trimm; and Life Coach, Marshawn Evans. The host, Deji-Kurunmi, described the conference as energetic of the most inspirational leaders, voices, and speakers; sharing transformational insights that shape human potential; empower men and women to step into a life of meaning, contribution, and wealth. “At the EPIC Shift Edition, we look forward to inspiring our vibrant audience, mostly between 19 and 40 years old, to embrace new thinking, tools and technology that ride on the disruption, and take ownership of their place in this emerging decade,” says Deji-Kurunmi. Part of the aim of the conference, she emphasised, is to see EPIC Shifts in their minds so that they can elevate their current reality. Speakers billed for the conference include Bisola Longe, Founder, Worthy Woman Walk; Detoun Ogwo, Human Capital Development Expert; Jokotade Adeniyi, International Visual Artiste, Creative Entrepreneur, and Speaker. Others are: John Obidi, Social Media Strategist, Online Business Consultant and founder, Headstart Africa; Femi Jacobs, Actor, Movie Producer and Author; Karika Yonreme, Personal Branding and Networking Expert; and Omilola Oshikoya, Africa’s wealth connoisseur and Author. MasterClass speakers are: Adedoyin Omotara; Sola Adesakin; Imisi Owolabi; Funmi Ayowole; Christina Soname; Toju Oluwatoyinbo; FlexiMumCoach; Tolu Michaels; Elizabeth Ajetunmobi; Dr. Samuel Ekundayo and Abiola Champ Salami. Deji-Kurunmi listed some of the topics to be discussed are: Leveraging an Exponential Decade, PHOENIX: Triumph your Pain; GLOBAL MINDSET: Riding on the Waves of Disruption; ASTONISH YOURSELF: The Genius of Youth. Also, topics like AMPLIFY – Find your Message, Build an Authentic Brand; RICHER LIFE: Embracing your Wealth DNA and CONNECT: Secrets to Networking Success will be handled. There will be keynote interview sessions and panel sessions too as the focal point for the master class sessions will handle, New Relationship with Money; Healthy Living, Wellness and Personal Renewal; LOVE: Making your LOVE Work; Embracing Innovation and the Future of Work; SHOW UP – A Young Person’s Guide to Finding Purpose. Other topics are Personal Mastery: Principles of Intentional Living; Identity and True Beauty: Unmasking YOU; Nurturing an Anchored Faith in a Distracted World; Emotional Strength and Mental Resilience Toolkit and Raising the Family of your Dreams (Parenting). Participants are encouraged to register via its website to attend the virtual conference. IMMERSE Coaching Company, which is hosting the conference, was launched in 2014 by Deji-Kurunmi and has grown into a tech-driven global coaching community with over 40,000 thought-leaders, visionaries and purpose-driven men and women.