AutoChek, an automotive technology company set out to transform the African automobile industry by using technology to re-create the buying, maintenance and selling experience of motorists and car owners in Africa, is pleased to announce the launch of its website and mobile application where customers can buy, sell and fix cars, using their smartphones from the comfort of any location. Commenting on the launch, the Vice President commercial, Mayokun Fadeyibi said “AutoChek is the future of the African automobile industry, and It isn’t for nothing that we recently closed a $3.4million pre-seed to boost our service delivery in the auto market. The launching of the website and mobile application reflects Autochek’s commitment to providing viable solutions to the challenges of the automotive industry in Nigeria and Africa. We are proud of the resources and services put together for the convenience of our customers by our team of distinguished technology experts, and are very excited about the future of Autochek in leading and expanding the frontiers the frontiers of the African automotive industry at large” The newly launched website and mobile application are an end-to-end auto solution offering that gives the customer a wide array of options from sales to maintenance and financing helping the customer make informed automobile decisions with convenience. The website and mobile application features auto brands, auto product details and descriptions, Autocheck doctors for an automatic diagnosis of your car problems, and a service booking platform for the inspection of cars customers want to sell. Anyone interested in effectively meeting an automobile need can head over to the website or download the mobile application to get started. In addition to the said features, the Chief Executive Officer, Etop Ikpe further remarked that they are pleased to have provided a key solution to tackling some of the challenges posed by a lack of auto funding in the African automotive industry. Autochek’s website and mobile application come with a “get pre-qualified” feature where customers can receive funding to own the car of their dreams. Having gone through the pre-qualification process, customers can browse a personalized inventory curated just for them, and enjoy installmental payments on received car loans. Using autochek.africa, and the mobile application that can be downloaded from Google play, customers can lock down a car of their choice with a deposit, receive funds to own a car, get better deals for selling their cars, diagnose their cars and enjoy premium maintenance service right at their doorstep. Customers can also enjoy other packages put together to ensure a seamless ownership of cars; access to a wide range of brands, both brand new and used, visibility of the condition of your choice car, registration of both local and foreign used cars, access to an extensive list of car workshops in Lagos, Abuja, Port-Harcourt, Accra and other major cities in Nigeria and West Africa. In bringing all of this to life, an official launch and demo session was held today in Lagos to guide users on how to navigate through the website and the mobile application so they can take advantage of its vast offerings, helping to ensure that all car troubles for auto users and motorists are now a thing of the past. Autochek is an automotive technology company and a one-stop shop that provides digital solutions to automotive needs through its cutting-edge digital infrastructure for better sales coordination, servicing and funding for the African Auto market. Autochek has a catalogue that features different car brands and segment options ranging from Honda, Toyota, Benz, Ford, to BMW, and everything in-between. These cars come in Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs), Sedans, Hatchbacks, buses and many other brands and segments. Autochek is staying ahead of the curve effortlessly by bringing a 360 degree automotive solution to the fingertips of the people, giving them a stress-free, unmatched, seamless transaction and car ownership experience. Like they say at Autochek, for everything cars, check with Autochek.