By Kayode Fasua in Abeokuta The Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun Tuesday inaugurated another batch of chairmen and members of State’s Boards and Commissions, saying a performance-rating system had been introduced to make his administration achieve its overall goal. Abiodun, who warned that his administration would not tolerate any act that was not in concert with the overall vision of his government, equally charged the new members of Boards and Parastatals to give selfless services aimed at translating his government’s collective dreams into reality. Speaking further at the event held at the June 12 Cultural Centre, Abeokuta, he said the state government would put in place “some performance metrics to measure the performances of the agencies and determine in what specific ways the new appointees have contributed”. He explained that the inauguration was an indication of his administration’s commitment to an inclusive policy that is laid down for the continued economic development of Ogun, pointing out that adoption of the ‘batch approach’ to the inauguration was to comply with COVID-19 protocols. The governor, however, expressed optimism that the incorporation of a new set of Board and Commission appointees would further strengthen the government’s structure, to aid the implementation of his government’s “Building Our Future Together”. Abiodun stressed that the new appointments reflected competence, professionalism, fairness, equity and inclusiveness, which had been the hallmark of his administration. He also disclosed that the state government would organise a retreat soon for the new appointees, to facilitate their understanding of their mandate; scope of authority and responsibilities; and how they need to work together in their respective MDAs. “We therefore have no doubt that the new set of appointees will join hands with those initially inaugurated and indeed other members of the government to deliver on our vision. “And, we also enjoin them to carefully study the mandate and functions of their respective MDAs for service delivery to the people of Ogun State. “Let me also say that as part of our approach at making all our appointees settle down to their assignments, we will be organizing a rereat very soon. “This will facilitate their understanding of their mandate; scope of authority and responsibilities; and, very importantly, how they need to work together, particularly with the bureaucracy in their respective MDAs to ensure smooth harmonious working relationship and group energy to deliver our agenda. “I also wish to say that we are aware that there are still many more people that are also as equally qualified and very willing to serve our dear State. “Please note that appointments are ongoing, however we cannot appoint everyone; it is important to remind those of you appointed that this is an opportunity to serve and write your names in indelible ink in the history of our dear state”, Abiodun admonished.