The immediate past President of the Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Mr. Olusola Teniola has tasked the newly elected executives of the association to be resilient in leadership in order to successfully direct the affairs of ATCON in the next two years. Teniola, who gave the advice, while narrating his experience as President of ATCON, told THISDAY Newspapers in a telephone interview that the leadership style that would be deployed by the new exco, must come with tenacity and purposeful intent. According to Teniola, “Looking back over the years I would consider the greatest challenge for ATCON under my leadership, as the recession that was faced by the executive and the impact it had on ATCON members and membership. With every challenge we immediately set out to change the image of the association by immediately focusing spending on increased advocacy, information dissemination and global partnerships. We were more visible in the Middle East and represented Nigeria in Morocco in 2017 at a pan African event. “Alongside, this we also signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with A4AI, a Web foundation organisation co-founded by the inventor of the web. All these were done within the first six months of our first tenure and it brought in the much needed momentum to our cause and attracted more attention to what ATCON was addressing. We turned this challenge to an advantage and ATCON is now placed to address all issues concerning the country’s digital transformation journey.” Speaking further, Teniola said: “As immediate past President, I am also part of the newly elected executives in an advisory capacity. I believe the foundation in place should be built upon and continued dialogue with all stakeholders us absolutely necessary. “The current president of ATCON, Mr. Ikechukwu Nnamani announced in his acceptance speech after the election, which held recently in Lagos that FOREX, funding and strengthening of the ATCON’s Secretariat were areas of immediate focus. These are all specific issues that are germane to our industry and the new executives have a lot of work to do to address them.”