By Benjamin Nworie Embattled Chairman of the Ebonyi State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Onyekachi Nwebonyi, has described the dissolution of wards, local government and state executive of the party as illegal, null and void and unworkable. Briefing journalists in Abakaliki, the state capital, Nwebonyi added that it was laughable for the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to dissolve a state executive committee because the state Governor, David Umahi, or a few individuals want to leave the party. He stressed that they are still in charge of the party in the state for the next four years having been duly elected for a four-year term recently. Nwebonyi, therefore, reminded the party hierarchy that the tenure of his executives would elapse in 2024, and that nobody has the power to dissolve the state executives. According to the state party chairman, “My attention has been drawn to a statement issued by the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP that the NWC of the PDP has dissolved the ward, local government and the State Executive Committees of the party in the state because the state governor’s planned defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC). “It is laughable to think that the NWC would just get up and dissolve a state executive committee because the governor or a few individuals want to leave the party. We are in charge of the party in Ebonyi State for the next four years having been duly elected for a four-year term recently. Our tenure will elapse in 2024 and nobody has the power to dissolve the state executives.” Meanwhile, Nwebonyi’s SWC has suspended the State Women Leader, Mrs. Amaka Igboke, whose was also appointed as the Women Leader of the constituted Caretaker Committee. The state executive threatened to go to court if the NWC failed to nullify the caretaker committee. The PDP state chairman further explained that they got the hint that the governor wanted to defect to APC, but all efforts to make him reconsider the move failed. Nwebonyi-led committee also pledged its unalloyed support to the party and its leadership under Prince Uche Secondus, stressing that they will work assiduously to deliver the PDP at the polls in 2023. Nwebonyi stated further that while the leadership of the PDP in Ebonyi State cannot accept any plan to scheme the Southeast out of the 2023 presidential equation, they will prefer a dialogue to dumping the party. He, therefore, called on the national leadership of the party to do the needful now, and zone the presidential ticket to the South-east region in 2023 with or without Umahi.