As the United States of America and Europe begin partial lockdown in response to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, Nigeria would not be immune to this second wave as the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has raised the alarm of a possible second wave of the pandemic in the country. Taking a hint from this, the National Association of Seadogs (NAS) Pyrates’s Confraternity, through her medical outreach non governmental organisation, the NAS Medical Mission, reached out to Nigerians all over the country with donation of thousands of Personal Protective Equipment, PPE, including Alcohol Sanitisers and face masks. The organisation used the occasion of her recent first Quarter Pyrates Working Council meeting held online to reach out to Nigerians with these protective items. Primary Health Care Centre’s across the federation were targeted for the distribution of the protective items. The organization’s chapters in Lagos State and South Africa made up of Hawkins, Hispaniola X, Panama, Saratoga X, Walrus X , Zanas and Okavango Decks came together to make their presentation to the Bola Ahmed Tinubu Primary Healthcare Centre, PHC, on Akowonjo Road, Egbeda, in Alimosho local Government of the state. 1000 Hand Sanitizers and 750 units of Nose Masks were presented to the grassroots modern healthcare facility by the worldwide president of the Association, NAS Cap’n Abiola Owoaje. Speaking at the occasion , Owoaje informed the management of the healthcare Centre led by Dr. Odunfunwa Kayode, Medical Health Officer in charge of Alimosho Local Government Area, that part of the mission and corporate objective of the Association was to impact on the society wherever they found themselves the world over. “What we are doing here today is not a one off thing, we would continue to partner with your Primary healthcare facility once the opportunity presents itself most especially as it concerns community services that would benefit the under privileged in society,” he said. On his part, Bashorun Olarenwaju, the associations’s regional vice-president in charge of Lagos State and South Africa, thanked the management, staff members and patients who attended the event for giving the organisation the opportunity to make her contribution toward checkmating the anticipated second wave of Covid-19 in the state. “Part of the reason why we are here is to create the public awareness that covid-19 is real and we must all prepare to take care of ourselves by being part of the simple preventive measures that has been counseled by the NCDC through the use of nose masks and hand sanitisers,” he reiterated. Dr Kayode thanked NAS for their laudable gesture, “This is one of the best primary healthcare facilities in the state with two other Centre’s under our purview. I must inform you that most private healthcare facilities in this local government are not as equipped and staffed with qualified medical personnel as this facility and we thank you for considering us worthy of receiving these donations today. Other corporate organisation have also intervened like you people have done today because of the quality of service we render here,” he averred. The santiizers and nose masks were immediately distributed to all staff and out patients present at the facility with Kayode promising that thel items would reach future patrons of the PHC. Present at the occasion were Uchenna Nnoli the Secretary-General of the Association and Godstime Awoze, the organisation’s Sergeant at arms. Speaking earlier to THISDAY, The Cap’n of Hawkins Deck that covers the Alimosho and Agege local governments of the state, Mr. Hassan Aidorolo, expressed gratitude to the leadership of the Association for choosing his domain of Alimosho out of the entire state to receive the donation. Owoaje later presented copies of one of the most comprehensive compendium of guide to what women and girls should do to seek legal redress and protect themselves when they fall victim to rape, titled “Rape Survivors’ Guide: A simple guide for victims in Nigeria.’ The Public presentation of the book, by the organisation under the leadership of Owoaje would follow shortly THISDAY was reliably informed.