By Adedayo Akinwale The House of Representatives has given the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) 72 hours ultimatum to submit documents on waste management and disposal component, as well as financial investment document in the NLNG Train-7 Gas Project. The Ad-hoc Committee on the investigation of the Non-Inclusion of Waste Management/Disposal of Sludge in the NLNG Train-7 Gas Project and Other Infringement by Oil Companies/Multinationals, gave the directive at an investigative hearing with NLNG officials which commenced on Wednesday in Abuja. The Chairman of the Ad-hoc Committee, Hon. Agom Jarigbe Agom, also said the company had failed to submit its financial investment documents. Speaking with journalists at the end of the hearing, he said the mandate of the committee was to investigate the environmental challenges and non inclusion of the waste management disposal in the NLNG gas project. Agom stated: “We are investigating the non inclusion of waste management on the NLNG Train-7 Gas Project. We had earlier on asked them for the financial investment documents. Our concerns are environmental hazards and non inclusion of waste management disposal in the NLNG gas project. “That is why we invited them and we have given them an ultimatum of 72 hours to provide the final investment documents; the component of it that has to do with waste management in the train 7 gas project The lawmaker noted that though the local content component was not really their concern but as a parliament, they would ensure it would be implemented. Agom stressed that the committee would continue its hearing on Thursday with some invited International Oil Companies (IOCs) who would make to explainations to the committee. He added, “Local content component is not really our mandate but as a parliament, we will ensure that Local Content Act is complied with. On IOCs, basically the issue of sludge disposal is mainly with the IOCs. They generate a lot of sludge from their operations and tomorrow (today) we are talking to some IOCs including AGIP and a few others.” “We have grey areas to look at, we take all of them. Some of them are reasonably compliant to international best practices and some are not. We ‘ve looked at their submissions and will take them up.” On his part, the General Manager, External Relations and Sustainable Development, NLNG who led the delegation of staff assured that the company will make available the documents. He said it was an interactive session, saying “they requested some document and will provide them.”