By Laleye Dipo Following the recent protest by youths in some parts of the country against the operations of the now disbanded Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS), the Inspector-General of Police (IG), Alhaji Mohammed Adamu, has said that among the lessons learnt from the incident are that Nigerians are now more sophisticated and know their rights better than before. The society, the police boss added, are also more conscious and know how they want to be policed. Adamu, who made the remarks in a message to the passing out parade (POP) of the first batch of the Special Constabulary at the Police Training School in Minna, Niger State on Friday, therefore charged the newly recruited special constables not to abuse their positions or take it as an opportunity to abuse the rights of others. The IGP, who was represented by the AIG Zone 7, Mr Hosiah Kama, said: “You are therefore charged as you pass out and will be deployed accordingly to work with respective police divisions, to be professionals in the discharge of your duties, always respect human rights and be courteous to the members of the public. “Remember, you are from this state and you are known by members of the community. Strive therefore to be good ambassadors of your respective families and do not be the reason why your families should be viewed with contempt and disdain.” Adamu also defended the decision of the police to adopt community policing, saying: “It is to bridge the gap between the police and the policed,” stressing that it would further address and solve the issues of criminality in the country. “Community policing is a global policing model, which is problem-solving based by emphasizing the impressiveness of partnering with the community in addressing the causes of crime and reducing fears of insecurity in the society. “Community policing is a policing strategy, which advocates and inclines towards crime prevention and control, then reactive policing measures which widen the gap between the police and the policed.” Adamu therefore implored the communities to cooperate with the newly recruited special constables, adding that the only way to solve crimes and criminal incidents in the community is for everyone to work and cooperate with each other. The Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, commended the IG for the recruitment of the special constables, who he said will be used for community policing, adding that with community policing, communities in the state that are bedevilled with insecurity can be at ease. Bello, who was represented by his Deputy, Alhaji Ahmed Mohammed Ketso, said community policing will also bring security to the areas experiencing insecurity thereby making them more secured. Four hundred and sixty three constables recruited from 10 out of the 25 local government areas of the state passed out at the ceremony.