Ugo Aliogo
Leadway Pensure PFA has reiterated its commitment to excellent service delivery, as well as competitive returns on investments for its Retired Savings Account (RSA) customers. The firm pointed out that by constantly delivering unique services and innovating processes, it was pushing the frontiers of the pension industry in Nigeria, while also offering comfort to RSA holders. According to a statement, the firm launched an online RSA enrollment portal, which enables users to remotely open RSAs and get their Personal Identification Numbers (PINs) within 10 minutes.
It explained that the swiftness of the process helps to eliminate the bureaucracy of physical enrollment and giving Nigerians the needed motivation to secure their financial future. It maintained that RSAs coupled with the Leadway mobile app, interactive SMS, Pensure Online (P-Online) and SureCal (Pensure Calculator), provides accessibility and convenience for customers to have wholesome and seamless pension experiences with the brand. In his remarks, the Managing Director, Leadway Pensure, Mrs. Ronke Adedeji, said: “Our promise to all existing and potential customers at Leadway Pensure PFA is to give them good experiences across all our channels. “We are not relenting in our quest to find better ways to connect with our customers and give them excellent pension service delivery. This explains why we won the best PFA in customer service back to back.” She further noted that the firm’s RSA funds outperformed their stipulated benchmark for October, with RSA I returning a 32 per cent annualised return against a 25 per cent benchmark; RSA II returned 25 per cent against a 23 per cent benchmark. She added that the RSA III returned 20 per cent against a 15 per cent benchmark, and RSA IV returned 18 per cent against a nine per cent benchmark; culminating in an overall high performance of RSA funds across multiple investments in the company. Continuing she hinted: “The performance is a testament to our consistent efforts to deliver excellent results to our customers. As a company, we work assiduously to never stray from our objective of remaining among the top five Pension Fund Administrators in the country.”