More winners are emerging in the ongoing Pure Bliss Millionaire Promo, as the promo-made millionaires smile to bank. On Thursday 5th November Mr. Chisom Udo, a resident of Alagbole, Lagos was crowned the first millionaire with one million Naira prize in the ongoing mega promotion, called “Pure Bliss Millionaire Promo”. The promotion has seen over 5,000 other winners emerge across Nigeria, winning attractive gifts ranging from premium smartphone, LED TV, bluetooth speakers, bluetooth microphones, product hampers and N100-mobile airtime. The consumer promotion is part of the brand’s desire to delight, reward and financially empower Nigerians in these uncertain times.
Under the promotion, which will run until Thursday, December 31, 2020, or while stock lasts, 15 lucky Nigerians will emerge as millionaires with a cash prize of N1 million. There will also be lots of other lucky winners of mouth-watering prizes. Explaining how to win and become a millionaire, the organusers said: Customers could simply buy any promo pack of their favourite Pure Bliss Variant; Look inside the wrapper and see if there is an 8-digit code; Send code to 34778 via SMS or send to 08135053867 via WhatsApp, adding that every code guarantees a prize. Other prizes to be won include: 30 million worth of airtimes, sound speakers, headsets, iphones, 40-inch television sets and special hampers.
Pure Bliss is staying true to its brand promise ‘Light Up Your Day’ and aims to uplift the mood of millions of Nigerians.
The company assured all promo participants of life-changing rewards, if they purchase any promo pack of their choice. Pure Bliss is the range of indulgent biscuits and wafers from OK Foods that are targeted at adult Nigerians. It was first introduced in Nigeria in 2016 with Pure Bliss Milk Cream Wafers. Over the next four years, the brand will continue to launch rich Cocoa biscuits, premium Milk Cookies, Chocolate Cream Wafers and Strawberry Cream wafers. Pure Bliss has been the pioneer in upgrading adult Nigerians within the biscuits category and remains one of the leading biscuit brands in Nigeria. https://www.instagram.com/p/CHWDIILn6kS/?igshid=6kqvrhkkro2y