Peter Uzoho Solewant Group, an oil services firm involved in pipe/metals fabrication and coating, has unveiled its new set of products targeted at the international oil companies (IOCs) and the engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) companies. Solewant Group recently celebrated its 20th anniversary as a company and four years of its pipe coating plant situated at Alode, in Eleme Local Government Area of Rivers State. The new products, services and business model, which were initiated to serve the Nigerian oil and gas industry, were unveiled by the Group Chief Executive Officer of Solewant Group, Mr. Solomon Ewanehi. Ewanehi expressed happiness with the achievements recorded so far by the group and attributed them to the grace of God. He explained that the services of the company include; line pipe coating, provision of bare pipes, custom coating and cathodic services, emphasising that their services are tailored towards the growth of the oil and gas industry in the country. The group chief executive officer said Solewant Group was partnering foreign technical partners such as Shawcor Group of the Netherlands, Kema Coatings of Canada, Vallourec of France, and Anhuimeijia Group of China, among others. He said: “We are in partnership with Vallourec Group of France, for the provision of steel pipes and pipe coating solutions. Vallourec, one of the world’s largest manufacturers and providers of advanced seamless steel pipes, was founded in 1886. “Vallourec owns Seremax Steel Welding and Fabrication Group Worldwide. Our partnership with Shawcor Group is strong, the world’s largest provider of advanced pipeline coating systems, with 86 years’ experience. Shawcor Group owns Bredero Price and Socotherm Worldwide. “We are currently expanding our Canusa heat shrink sleeves coating centre to manufacture made-in- Nigeria Heat Shrink Sleeves products in Nigeria here at our Solewant Industrial Area,” Ewanehi explained. He said their competences lie on engineering, procurement and construction solutions, adding that their services are beneficial in the area of quality, speed and availability. He urged the IOCs, EPCs and others to take advantage of the company’s products to better their lot. Ewanehi further said: “We offer a one stop asset development, Steel fabrication and protection solutions. “Our facilities are the products of the local content philosophy of the federal government and the new driving principle in the oil and gas sector. “We intend to prove this as an enabler to value creation for the well-being of our Nigerian and global economy. We see this as a task that must be done through these master class facilities. “We, therefore, use this Open Day today to once again invite the international oil companies and your partners, project owners and EPCs to take advantage of the unique and cutting edge technology that our facility offers the Nigerian industrial environment.”