By Sunday Ehigiator The Christian Broadcasting Network (CBN) through its humanitarian arm Operation Blessing (OB) has donated food items to 200 families in the Dape community of Abuja. It likewise installed hand-washing stations in nine public locations within the city, courtesy of 700 Club arm. The events which occurred recently were aimed at supporting families to cushion the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic in the suburbs of the capital cities. Dape is one of the underserved communities in Abuja Municipal Area Council made up of people living below the poverty line. Most of the dwellers in the community are petty traders and artisans. Unfortunately, due to COVID-19, jobs have been difficult to come by, thereby throwing families into desperate need for food. The opportunity was also used to give a health-talk to the beneficiaries on the need to stay safe during the pandemic by observing social and physical distancing and maintaining best hygiene practices always. Speaking with THISDAY, a beneficiary, Ms. Eze Vivian who heard about the distribution through a friend of hers said she decided to come because “my children and I have not been feeding well because we do not have food. Another beneficiary who was empowered with an undisclosed amount, Mrs. Esther Peters narrated that, “since my husband died about 13 years ago, I have barely been remembered by anyone. My children and I have been living on the money I make from my bean cake (Akara) business. “We started spending the money to survive during the lockdown since there was no movement. With this support, I can buy my ingredients to resume my business and save for my children’s school fees. I am grateful to Operation Blessing.” Similarly, in line with the preventive measures recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and other health institutions, the organisation installed a hand-washing machine station to Jabi, Wuye, Jahi, Gwarimpa, Apo, Life Camp and Wuse Zone 5 communities, for the benefit of the dwellers. In addition to the installation of these stations, face masks were also distributed to Nigerians within these areas. While on the mission, Rev. Kalma ceased the opportunity to reiterate the goal of the Christian Broadcasting Network. He said it was to “continue to complement the efforts of the government by making sure Nigerians continue to stay safe and healthy during the pandemic. “As a faith based non-governmental organisation, CBN also provides humanitarian intervention in the area of health through medical missions and surgeries for children with cleft lip or palate deformities, water wells, women and youth empowerment and education for vulnerable children whose parents died as a result of HIV/AIDS and disaster relief in war-torn regions. “We believe catering to the needs of the underserved and underprivileged in the community brings the much needed succor to them. The hand-washing stations are part of many contributions of CBN to Nigeria.”