The 30 young and promising new designers ready to take on a post Covid – world are now being curated. They will be unveiled at ARISE FASHION WEEK 2020, at Lakowe Beach and Golf Resort, Lekki Expressway Lagos to global acclaim on December 5-12,2020. Global media and luxury brand, ARISE, recently announced its plans to support and reward emerging talents in global fashion with a search for the next generation of fashion brands in a world-class event, titled – ARISE Fashion Week 2020 – 30 under 30 – The New Stars – staged without audiences, but streamed to worldwide viewership on the new ARISEPLAY streaming and other platforms. With hundreds of wannabes from all over the world, the Selection Committee will choose the best and brightest that will compete for $500,000 USD in Prize money in a process which combines the best formats of Idols, Big Brother and Fashion extraordinary which will start the journey towards the emergence of new brands ready to take on the Valentinos, The Chanels and The LVMH Fashion houses. This initiative is a first of its kind anywhere in the world, starts with ARISE inviting key global fashion players with a proven track record to oversee the independent selection process. Their mandate will be to assess the contestant’s distinctive aesthetics, design philosophy, overall creativity, and potential for the global fashion market. The 25 committee members listed will each select their preferred top 30 applicants. The 30 most recurring finalists will emerge as a consensus list and will then be announced on November 16th, 2020. The selected committee members are Alpha Dia- Fashion Model, Alton Mason- Fashion Model, Avinash Wadhwani- Retailer (Founder of Temple Muse), Chioma Nnadi- Fashion Editor (US VOGUE), Chinwe Obaigbena – Founder Complete Beauty, David Tlale- Fashion Designer, Ituen Basi- Fashion Designer, KK Obi- Stylist/Creative Director, Jenke Ahmed Tailly- Stylist/Creative Director, Jessica Willis- Stylist, Lanre Da Silva Ajayi- Fashion Designer, Loza Maleombho- Fashion Designer, Mai Atafo- Fashion Designer, Maison Artc- Fashion Designer, Michelle Ellie- Model/ Creative Director/Designer, Niyi Okuboyejo- Fashion Designer, Odio Mimonet- Fashion Designer, Okunoren- Fashion Designer, Reni Folawiyo- Retailer (Founder of ALARA), Sasa Thomann- Stylist/Art Director, Stephen Tayo- Photographer, Sunny Rose- Fashion Designer, Tiffany Amber- Fashion Designer, Xuly Bet- Fashion Designer, Yvone Nwosu- Fashion Designer. For information and Enquiries, Contact Konye Nwagbogor/Editor, thisdaystyle.ng; konye.nwabogor@thisdaylive.com; Bolaji Animashuan /Line Producer, ARISE Fashion Week bolaji@arisefashionweek.world; Sakina Renneye / Line Producer, ARISE PLAY sakina@arisefashionweek.world.