By Francis Sardauna in Katsina The Nigerian Army has said its troops of Operation Sahel Sanity, deployed to ward off banditry and kidnapping in the North-west, have killed five bandits and lost one soldier during a gun duel with the hoodlums in Diskiru village of Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State. The acting Director, Defence Media Operations, Brig. General Benard Onyeuko, in a statement issued to journalists on Sunday at the Army Special Super Camp IV, Faskari, said three bandits were neutralized on the spot, while two other dead bodies of bandits were later discovered along their withdrawal route. Onyeuko, in the statement, explained that in the aftermath of the fierce fire fight, three nursing mothers and their infants earlier kidnapped by the marauding bandits were rescued by the gallant troops. Regrettably, he said one brave soldier paid the supreme price in an attempt to save one of the rescued nursing mothers in the heat of the deadly encounter. He said: “On 29 October 2020, troops swiftly responded to a distress call about bandits activities at Diskuru village in Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State. “The incident was recorded as the marauding bandits storm the village on several motorcycles, shooting sporadically with the intent to scare the locals and loot valuables. “On arrival, the gallant troops engaged the criminals in a fierce fire fight forcing them to withdraw in disarray. Resulting from the encounter, 3 bandits were neutralized by the troops as several others were believed to have escaped with various degrees of gunshot wounds.” He added: “During the exploitation phase, 2 additional bandits’ dead bodies were discovered along their withdrawal route. Also in the aftermath of the encounter, 3 women and their infants earlier kidnapped by the bandits were rescued from the criminals. “Troops continue to dominate the village and adjoining environment to deny the bandits any respite. Regrettably, one brave soldier paid the supreme price in an attempt to save one of the rescued nursing mothers in the heat of the encounter.”