Emmanuel Addeh in Abuja The Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA) has moved to boost the quality of meters and other important electrical installations, becoming the first government agency in the power sector to acquire the Quality Management System (QSM) ISO 9001:2015 certificate in the country. ISO 9001 is the international standard that specifies requirements for quality management system (QMS) which organisations use to demonstrate their ability to consistently provide products and services that meet customer and regulatory requirements. Speaking in Abuja during the official presentation of the international mark of quality by the leadership of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Managing Director of the organisation which is responsible for the enforcement of technical standards and regulations in the sector, Mr. Peter Ewesor, noted that the safety of Nigerians remains of utmost concern to the body. He stated that the agency would continue to ensure that electrical materials, equipment and instruments used in the sector, workplaces and other premises are of the right type, quality, standard and specifications.
According to him, the adoption of a quality management system ISO–9001–2015 was a strategic decision initiative which has impacted positively on its overall performance and provides a sound basis for sustainable development initiatives. The federal government recently embarked on a meter distribution drive, including the local production of the devices, with the job of ensuring that the meters meet international standards falling on NEMSA. Ewesor stressed that the new approach which involves the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle and risk-based thinking will enable the organisation to plan its processes and enhance better satisfaction of its customers, including all the stakeholders in the power sector value chain. “These customers the GENCOs, TCN, DISCOs, IOCs, the Academia, Certified electrical contractors, certified electricity meter installation contractors and the general public,” the Chief Electrical Inspector of the Federation stated. The MD vowed that NEMSA will continue to improve its processes, procedures and quality delivery of inspection testing and certification of all categories of electrical installations and all electricity meters in the industry. In his comments, the Director General, SON, Mr. Farouk Salim, said the certificate will help strengthen the organisation to satisfy its customers in the power sector. Salim, who was represented by Felix Ayado, a top management staff of the organisation, stated that the loss of lives to quacks in the power sector and use of substandard power equipment in the country makes it crucial to encourage and sustain professionals like those working with NEMSA. He added that there’s now a new requirement which states that government contractors should henceforth have the global certification to carry out any government job.
“I can tell you that under the new arrangement in the procurement service of the country, no contractor will be offered contracts without ISO certification as a minimum,” added. Salim said the SON would continue to monitor the progress of the agency and its adherence to quality, stressing that the organisation will not hesitate to withdraw the certificate if it’s found that NEMSA is no longer meeting up with obligations to its customers and Nigerians.