By John Shiklam The District Head of Gidan Zaki, Zangon Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State, Mr. Haruna Kuye and his son, Destiny, have been killed by gunmen. Two people were also said to have been killed while some were abducted following attacks by bandits on Fatika, Kaya and Yakawada villages in Giwa Local Government Area of the state. The Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, disclosed this in a statement yesterday. He said Kuye and his son were kill in the early hours yesterday when gunmen invaded their residence. The incidents came less than 24 hours after bandits killed 11 people in Albasu community in Igabi Local Government Area of the state on Monday. Aruwan said the military operation code name “Operation Safe Haven”informed the Kaduna State Government of the killings in Zangon Kataf. The statement added that the wife of the District head sustained injuries from machete cuts while the daughter had a gunshot wound on her finger. “The security report further stated that the act was carried out by about five men wielding AK-47 rifles and machetes, who also tried to burn the house and a vehicle” Aruwan said adding that “three empty cases and a live round of 7.62mm special ammunition were recovered at the scene of the incident.” The statement said: “Troops in collaboration with other security agencies are carrying out investigations and trailing the assailants.” Aruwan added: “Governor Nasir El-Rufai has condemned the killings as evil and violation of the sanctity of the human lives by enemies of peace who must be fished out and made to face the wrath of the law. “The governor who condoled the Kuye family and the Atyap Traditional Council, prayed for the repose of the souls of the District Head and his son.” He said El-Rufai praised the late Haruna Kuye for his contributions to the peace-building efforts in Zangon-Kataf. “The governor has directed the Commissioner of Police and Director of the Department of State Services to team up with the military forces on the ground to ensure diligent investigations,” the statement said. Aruwan further disclosed that “Security agencies have also reported attacks in Giwa LGA where armed bandits attacked Fatika, Kaya and Yakawada villages. Two persons were killed and some kidnapped.” Meanwhile, Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) has condemned killing of the district head. The union also condemned Monday’s killing of 13 people in communities in Igabi and Giwa Local Government Areas of the state by bandits. In a statement, SOKAPU said the killing of the district head, “is an abhorable crime which aim is to cause communal strife and this our people must resist.” The statement signed by the spokesman of the group, Luka Binniyat, said, “The dastardly murder of the District Head of Mazaki, in Atyap Chiefdom, Zangon Kataf LGA, Mr Haruna Kuye and his teenage son, Destiny Kuye, stands totally condemned. “It is an abhorable crime which aim is cause communal strife, and this our people must resist.” According to Binniyat the attack on the District Head, “was a well-planned murder by evil men who sneaked into the village and headed for his home and unleashed terror”. SOKAPU called on the state and the federal governments to come to the aid of thousands of victims the recent Southern Kaduna crisis.