Ayodeji Ake A media platform in Nigeria focused on young audience demographic, Pop Central, has launched the Small Medium Enterprises (SMEs) Ad Grant.
The organisation said the initiative would afford small businesses the opportunity of free exposure on live television. According to a statement made available to THISDAY, the media platform would be giving verified SME in Nigeria millions of naira worth of free advert grants via its station, Pop Central TV, DStv channel 189.
Chief Executive Officer, Pop Central Yinka Obebe , stressed that SMEs are crucial for local and economic development. He said: “According to research, in Nigeria, SMEs contribute 48 per cent of national Gross Domestic Product (GDP), account for 96 per cent of business and 84 per cent of employment. “This significant contribution of SMEs to the Nigeria economy has been affected harshly by the ongoing COVID -19 pandemic.
“This incited Pop Central to introduce the ad grant stimulus to support SMEs in the country on the path to recovery. “The SME Ad Grant is aimed at helping small and medium sized businesses recover from the reverberations of the Covid-19 pandemic. We are giving away N388 million worth of free advert grants to verified SMEs in Nigeria who are obviously the engine that runs the economy. “Verified SMEs are those that have been duly registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission in Nigeria; they are eligible and can apply for the SME Ad Grant via the link on our website”. He added: “TV advertising as a premium complementary marketing platform is effective for SMEs who need to promote and aim to market a product or service. SMEs who will take advantage of the SME Ad Grant by Pop Central will be able to target and capture their audience, reach and build trustworthiness with a wide audience and cushion the difficulty that most SMEs are experiencing this year.” The grant to the SMEs would help boost their operations and enable them create the needed visibility in Nigeria and across Africa.
Pop Central is partnering with FAYA, an Adtech company that simplifies and unifies the way to trade media advert inventory, to disburse the grant to the SMEs.