Mary Nnah The Oniru Royal Houses and entire people of Iruland have expressed appreciation to all those who contributed to the successful installation and coronation ceremonies of the 15th Oniru of Iruland, His Royal Majesty, Alayeluwa Oba Abdul Wasiu Omogbolahan Lawal, (Abisogun II), which held on Sunday, June 7, 2020. In a press release made available to THISDAY by the Media Office of the Palace of Oniru of Iruland, the Palace also extended gratitude to the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, his Deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat and the entire State Executive Council over the support and distinctive roles played in the past few days. Appreciation was also ascribed to His Imperial Majesty, Alayeluwa, Oba Rilwan Babatunde Akiolu, the Olowo Eko as well as the Lagos State Traditional Council and other traditional rulers in Yoruba land, corporate organisations, residents and great people of Lagos and the host of well-meaning individuals and stakeholders who “demonstrated the unity that continues to spur us all forward as a pacesetter and the standard to beat in collaboration for success and the sustainable development of the state.” “It is on this note and strong footing that the reign of the new Oniru, HRM, Oba ‘Gbolahan Lawal commenced with the processes for a change in administration of the affairs of the kingdom”, it stated. The statement revealed further that the reign of His Royal Majesty Oba Abdul Wasiu Lawal kicked off with the unveiling of the official insignia of the King, set-up of digital communication channels and official telephone lines. It stated further that interested stakeholders are to keep up with the activities of the Oniru and Palace functions via @HRMOniru on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram as well as the official palace telephone lines. The palace explained further that a ‘Post No Debit’ Notice to Lessers and Financial Partners of the Kingdom was authorised by His Royal Majesty and published the national daily, adding, “This development should not be misconstrued as a sign of any conflict but a regular administrative procedure with immediate effect to advise concerned stakeholders about the changes in structure and corporate governance. The Palace will continue to work with all concerned parties to ensure the highest levels of professionalism and global best practices.” As stated in his acceptance speech only a week ago, HRM Oba ‘Gbolahan Lawal has accepted this further call to serve and pledged to be fair and just to everyone. He also promised to work with all stakeholders to ensure outstanding successes are recorded in the shortest possible time during his reign. “Further directives by HRM Gbolahan Lawal and activities of the Palace and Kingdom will be communicated through the appropriate channels and disseminated via mainstream media platforms. “ “We thank everyone for their support, suggestions and goodwill as we all work towards the development of Iruland and entire Lagos State in collaboration with the State Government to achieve the THEMES development agenda of the Sanwo-Olu administration”. From the Abisogun Royal Family, HRM Oba ‘Gbolahan Lawal is a multi-sector public servant and administrator with over three decades of experience serving in various capacities in Lagos State. During his public service career, he initiated and executed various initiatives, evolving and executing policies and programs, especially in the area of social interventions to eradicate poverty and give hope to the downtrodden. He was formally installed on Sunday, June 7, 2020 as the 15th Oniru of Iruland.