Laleye Dipo in Minna The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that nothing has changed in the five years that the All Progressives Congress (APC) government of Governor Abubakar Sani Bello has been at the helms of affairs in Niger State. The party claimed that most roads in the state are still in deplorable condition while people cannot sleep with their two eyes closed as a result of bandits’ attacks. A chieftain of the party and chairmanship aspirant, Alhaji Mohammed Tanko Beji, who gave the assessment while speaking to newsmen in Minna on Saturday, decried the present situation whereby the morale of people in the state has been very low because the APC has not given the much promised change. “They (APC) have not lived up to expectation, they should have done better, Nigerlites have learnt they will do what is right at the right time,” he said. Beji commended the people of the state for their patience and resilience in the face of the daunting challenges in the last five years assuring them that very soon, things would change for the better. The PDP chieftain, who is seeking reelection as chairman of the party for a second term, urged party faithful to eschew ethnic and religious considerations while making their choice of new leaders for the party. He said the party has, in the last couple of years, operated as one indivisible family notwithstanding the areas of the state its leadership come from, warning that any attempt to bring religion and ethnicity into the party’s affairs will spell doom for it. He reminded the supporters of the party that most of its national officers from the state are presently from one ethnic nationality, adding that: “We should not truncate the peace and unity we have in our party now with ethnic and religious considerations.” The PDP chieftain claimed he had already traversed 19 out of the 25 local government areas of the state, and from what the people are saying, he was optimistic that he would be returned as chairman, adding that most of the leaders of the party in the three senatorial zones of the state are on his campaign team indicating their support for him. He promised to carry out a major reform of the party if reelected, stressing that a reward system for all that contributed to the growth of the party will be introduced even as he also said that the administration of the party will be taken to the grassroots where the people are. Beji threw his weight behind the zoning of elective and party positions because “zoning has made it easy for us to determine which area of the state should get any position at a given time”.