Onuminya Innocent in Sokoto No fewer than 21 people have been killed by gunmen in separate attacks in Talata Mafara and Maru Local Government Areas of Zamfara State. The attacks were said to have occurred on Tuesday and Wednesday. The state police command confirmed that 21 people were killed in the attacks, but residents of the affected communities said 25 people died. According to the residents, the attackers first ransacked various peasant communities and stole hundreds of livestock. They, however, met stiff resistance in some communities and retreated, a source said asking not to be identified. People were killed in Awala Zaman Gida, Yargada Bolakke, and Gidan Runji communities all in Maru and Talata Mafara councils areas. The Zamfara State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Muhammad Shehu, in a statement, confirmed the attacks. He however, refuted some media reports claiming that over 100 people were killed in the attacks. The police image maker confirmed that the attacks occurred on Tuesday and Wednesday in six villages namely:- Tungar Malan, Manyan Karaje, Tungar Arne, Dangodon Maiyakane, Dangodon Mai Masallaci and Boleke in Maru Local Government Area. The armed bandits attacked with the intention to rustle cows, however, after they were confronted by members of the militia group known as “YAN SAKAI”, they started shooting sporadically, thereby resulting to the death of 15 people, while seven people sustained a gunshot wound and rushed to the hospital for treatment, the police said. Also, the police said the gunmen on June 3 attacked and killed six people in four villages namely: Gidan Dan Kani, Tungar lauti, Inwala and Dangodo villages in Talata Mafara Local Government Area. The victims were attacked and killed while returning from the funeral prayer of those killed in the first attack. Five people sustained gunshot wounds and are currently receiving treatment, the police said in the statement. “At the moment, normalcy has been restored in the affected communities, and the command will keep members of the public abreast as soon as new development emerges,” the statement said.