Rebecca Ejifoma Founder and Senior Pastor of Christ Mercyland Deliverance Ministry, Prophet Jeremiah Fufeyin, has encouraged Nigerians home and abroad not to relent on overcoming mounting challenges they face currently. In a sermon on Sunday June 21, the Prophet described dreams as a spiritual weapon, as he called on all to pay attention their dreams. His words: “Everyone dreams. Dreams are God’s avenue to prepare you for significant occasions, and exponential shifts”. Fufeyin, who believes strongly in the potency and efficacy of dreams, recalled that his church had anchored a special programme tagged, “Dreams, Interpretations and Solutions (DIS)”, disclosing that it would better guide children of God on the interpretations of their dreams, as it is essential to solving spiritual quagmires. Fufeyin urged: “People from all walks of life, regardless of their religious affiliations or denominations, should take their dreams very seriously as things only manifest physically when they have been concluded spiritually.” Continuing, he said people of great societal status do not joke with their dreams because they understand its non-negotiable importance to humanity. While highlighiting thee importance of dream, the pastor averred that clarity is of great necessity if anything good must come out of the dreams. “Dream interpretations gives proper direction to your prayers because once the cause of a problem is known the solution is not far; this is why it is even more imperative to seek prophetic interpretations and solutions to your dreams. “One cannot afford to trivialise dreams anymore because they can also be utilised by the devil, to manipulate the future if not fully understood,’ he stated. According to him, in a time like this and as always, all dreams are significant, adding, “God has blessed a few men with the Joseph-ability to interpret dreams and proffer effective solutions. Fufeyin added that the “Dreams, Interpretations and Solutions (DIS) programme, which has been in existence for years, came in handy. It was directed towards impacting and transforming millions of lives across the globe. He expressed further that this programme has changed the lackadaisical attitude of many believers towards their dreams. He enjoined Christians and other, to attend to their dreams, and connect with the power-packed programme for life changing interpretations and spiritual results. “Feel free to reach out to the Joseph of this generation, a man whom God has bountifully endowed with the ministry of interpretations and solutions,” he urged.