By Duro Ikhazuagbe with agency report Taiwo Awoniyi who got injured in Mainz 0-1 home loss to Augsburg in their week 31 game of the German Bundesliga yesterday has become the target of Manager Rouven Schroder. Awoniyi was involved in a head collision with compatriot Augsburg defender, Felix Uduokhai and had to be rushed off to hospital for medical attention. Despite fears, Mainz later confirmed on their Twitter handle he was not in danger. Mainz who are sitting dangerously in the 15th spot, just three points above the bottom three of the German topflight, have signified interests to sign the 22-year old forward on a permanent deal from Liverpool to keep him at the Opel Arena. The 2013 Under-17 World Cup winner with the Golden Eaglets played just 23 minutes against Augsburg before he was substituted by Austrian forward, Karim Onisiwo. Awoniyi joined Mainz last summer on loan and initially struggled for game time. However, the Nigerian has experienced something of a resurgence since the Bundesligaresumed, playing every game and scoring in the 2-2 draw at Koln, his first for the club and of the season. Prior to yesterday’s game, he completed 90 minutes in Mainz’s last two league outings, the most recent a shock 2-0 win at Eintracht Frankfurt. “I am very, very positive about him,” Schroder told German newspaper Bild. “Taiwo never let himself down, always had his head up and the absolute will to improve was never negative. It is a symbol of how team sport works. “We are in an exchange with Liverpool, that is an open position. We are now waiting for the last games. Then we’ll see what the next steps are,” observed the Mainz Coach. Awoniyi’s loan contract ends on June 30, with the Bundesliga wrapping up three days earlier. He joined Liverpool in 2015 after shining for Nigeriaat the 2013 Under-17 World Cup in the United Arab Emirates and the 2015 African Under-20 Championship in Senegal. According to Goal.com, Awoniyi’s move to Anfield has been complicated by the failure to get a work permit which led him to loan spells at FSV Frankfurt, NEC Nijmegen, Royal Excel Mouscron and Gent. His two stints at Mouscron were the most successful with a combined 21 goals and 10 assists in 47 appearances. Awoniyi is pleased with his progress, which he hopes the coaching staff at Anfield are noticing. “Coming here is just to make myself better. Even without playing for a while, coming in on Sunday just really shows I’ve really improved since coming to Germany. That’s the goal with being on loan,” he said previously on Liverpool’s official website. “I don’t think I’m the same player as I was in the last few years. I personally have seen improvement in my game and I believe most Liverpool coaches have seen that as well. “I just have to be prepared to improve myself and work on my weak points as well. When I’m back at LFC, I hope they will see that.”