Emma Okonji HMD Global, the home of Nokia phones, has announced the Nokia C2, bringing long lasting entertainment and creative photography to fans, combined with 4G connectivity at the most affordable price point for a Nokia phone. The Nokia C2 comes with a large 5.7” HD+ screen, a front facing camera with flash and HDR photography to brighten up your selfies and enough battery life to last from sunrise to sunset. Fans can watch YouTube videos offline with YouTube Go and keep their memories automatically organized, easy to find, edit and share with Gallery Go. Announcing the latest mobile phone, its General Manager, West, East and Central Africa, Mr. Joseph Umunakwe, said: “One of our main objectives is to bring great smartphone experiences to as many fans as possible across markets and price points. We know that people are looking for a reliable way to upgrade to a 4G smartphone experience. Complementing the popular Nokia C1, with the Nokia C2 we deliver on our commitment to creating quality devices you can trust, while offering a more accessible path to 4G for selected markets. We’ve added features like the large HD+ screen, front camera with flash and HDR photography, to allow fans to fully explore creating and enjoying content on a 4G-enabled device, optimized with Android 9 Pie (Go edition).” The Nokia C2 helps customers to discover a crisper, more immersive way to watch your favourite shows. Introducing YouTube Go, a brand-new way to help you download, enjoy and share videos. The app is designed to work well even with limited storage or slower network speeds, so you can watch your videos offline. The Nokia C2 allows customers to store up to 3000 songs or 13 hours of HD video thanks to lighter apps on Android (Go edition). For those who want even more, just add a memory card to make room for even more photos, videos and music. Keep the chat and apps going from sunrise to sunset with the 2800mAh battery,” Umunakwe said. “Take your selfies to the next level with the Nokia C2’s front camera and flash. Shoot shareable selfies even after sundown. HDR photography is made possible using the rear camera for that extra level of detail. “The Nokia C2 brings Gallery Go to benefits to even more people, so they can edit their favourite photos with just one simple tap. Plus, find and manage shots faster with automatic organisation,” Umunakwe added.