By Francis Sardauna The Katsina State Governor, Aminu Bello Masari, has said the Ajiwa Water Treatment Plant, after the ongoing revitalization and installation of equipment, will supply additional 4.5 million litres of water daily to residents across the state. He said the perennial water scarcity facing most communities in the state would soon be eradicated to pave the way for constant water supply in the state. Masari, who stated this to journalists shortly after inspecting the ongoing work at the treatment plant in Ajiwa, said negligence by successful governments and infrastructural decay were reasons for acute water shortage in the state. The Ajiwa Water Treatment Plant was constructed and commissioned in 1974, and was later neglected by the previous administrations despite serving as the only source of water to the state capital and its environs. Masari explained that his administration had constructed over 2,000 boreholes in communities across the state and plans were underway to construct more after the war against banditry and Covid-19 pandemic. He said: “We are trying to restore and raise the capability of Ajiwa dam and after the completion, the dam will be able to provide additional 4.5 million litres of water per day. “Ajiwa has become a regional water supply that was not meant to be. However, we believe with the improvement we are having in terms of raising the capability of the dam, we will be able to manage water scarcity. “Most communities in the state were confronting water scarcity because as an area that has not grown together with the population explosion in the country that is why in village and towns you see a lots of people with jerricans in search of water.” Earlier, the Commissioner for Water Resources, Adamu Funtua, said the Ajiwa water project was among other contracts awarded to M/S Continental Computers Resources and Investment Limited. “The contracts are as follows: procurement and installation of pumps, rehabilitation of water supply facilities at Kofar Kaura booster station, domestic at Rafin Dadi, industrial at Kano roundabout and elevated concrete tank at Dutsin-Ma road at the cost of N559,003,753.95. “Others include procurement and installation of one 800KVA Perkins generator with accessories for Kofar Kaura booster station at the cost of N68,403,103.55 and the procurement and installation of two 21000KVA generators and construction of generator rooms at the cost of N567,193,441.46. On his part, the contractor of the project, Salisu Kadandani, said the projects would be completed in the next eight months to avert prevailing water scarcity bedevilling residents of the state.