By Adedayo Akinwale The All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that it would display the credentials of the six governorship aspirants to be screened ahead of June 22, 2020 primaries in Edo state for public scrutiny from Monday, June 8 till Tuesday June 9, 2020. The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, in a statement issued Friday said that the six aspirants who had bought, completed and submitted the party’s expression of interest and nomination forms were: Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, Dr. Pius Odubu, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi, Hon. Osaro Obazee and Hon. Matthew Iduoriyekemwen. The ruling party said that the various submissions would be displayed at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja and in Benin City, the Edo State capital from Monday 8th to Tuesday 9th June, 2020 for claims and objections. Issa-Onilu stated: “In our bid to ensure due diligence and transparency in the screening exercise and learning from our recent shocking experiences, we are determined to avoid any lapses in the process. “Therefore, we are making the submitted information and documents of the governorship aspirants available to our party members and the public for verification of claims and to support the screening panel with information or any objection to the claims contained in the submission by the aspirants. “We are inviting party members and indeed members of the public to assist the screening committee by scrutinizing the information, credentials and documents provided by the governorship aspirants and availing the Screening Committee of counter and correct information, if applicable.” The party recalled that in line with the provisions of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) guidelines, APC had earlier released its time table and schedule of activities for the conduct of the 2020 Governorship Primary Elections in Edo States. The party spokesman said sales of nomination and expression of interest forms began at the APC National Secretariat from Wednesday 20th May to Tuesday 2nd June, 2020. Issa-Onilu stressed that the last day for submission of completed forms and accompanying documents was
Wednesday 3rd June, 2020. He added that the screening of aspirants had been slated for Wednesday 10th to Thursday 11th June, 2020, while screening appeal would hold on Friday 12th June, 2020.