By Victor Ogunje Sir Remi Omotoso, a boardroom guru and former Chairman of the Board of Standard Chartered Bank, died yesterday at 75 years after a brief illness. Omotosho, who hailed from Ayedun-Ekiti, was a seasoned administrator and industry leader in Nigeria’s financial sector, holding sensitive positions in DN Meyer Paints and Greenwhich Trust Limited; as well as Group Managing Director of Odua Investment Company Limited and Director General/Chief Executive Officer of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, at different times. Omotoso was also chairman, PPP Committee of Ekiti State during Governor Kayode Fayemi’s first term and served actively in the State COVID-19 Response Resource Mobilisation Committee, where he served as Chairman of the Funds Management and Evaluation Committee and the Federal Government Relations Committee. In a statement, yesterday, mourning the death of the boardroom guru, the Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi described the late Omotoso as an illustrious son of the Land of Honour, a dynamic leader in the financial sector and a patriot who served his fatherland diligently and made Ekiti proud through numerous achievements. He described the late Omotoso as a frontline investor, thoroughbred professional, seasoned administrator and impactful community leader who lived a life of service to God and humanity. Fayemi, who hailed the contributions of the late Omotoso to national development, noted that the deceased served meritoriously in several top management positions in the last four decades. Governor Fayemi said: “Despite Sir Omotoso’s busy schedule, he invested, his time and resources and energy on many laudable initiatives that impacted positively on the lives of the people and was always ready to support successive administration in the state with his wealth of experience and extensive national and global contacts. “For us in Ekiti, this is a huge loss. Sir Remi Omotoso was an exemplar. He represented our very best in Ekiti and made great impact in almost every aspect of life. He remained a source of pride and inspiration to generations after him. “Though we shall miss his wise counsel and positive disposition to developmental issues, but we are comforted by the fact he lived a good life and left behind legacies of service and honour. He remains our pride in Ekiti. “Our prayer is that God will grant him eternal rest and comfort the family.”