Platform Capital has refurbished and also donated three ultra-modern lecture halls to the University of Lagos (UNILAG) to support the take-off of the institution’s Business School’s Executive MBA programme. The intervention is expected to improve the learning environment, culture and provide access to world-class technology and content partnerships with universities across the globe. A statement explained that during the refurbishment, the entire building was renovated, and lecture halls were fully fitted with state-of-the art technology including interactive white boards, sound systems and versatile furniture, to ensure a best-in-class digital learning environment for students. Commenting on the intervention by Platform Capital, the Vice Chancellor, UNILAG, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, said, “This is a unique facility given to the university by Platform Capital and we are grateful to have received a facility like this which will enable students to have online lectures real-time. This will not only increase our ranking but will also increase our visibility as a university that is e-learning compliant.” Also, the Executive Director, University of Lagos Business School (ULBS), Prof. Abraham Osinubi said: “The goal of the ULBS is to create a business synergy in education, leadership and management in a world-class setting and we thank Dr. Akindele of Platform Capital for providing us with the facilities which we need to effectively implement our goals.” In addition to the refurbished rooms, the Chairman of Platform Capital, Dr. Akintoye Akindele, pledged $10,000 as a prize to the best graduating student, automatic employment at Platform Capital and its portfolio companies for the top three graduating students and internships for students of the ULBS Executive MBA programme annually. Akindele added, “The launch of the world class lecture halls was just phase one for the University. We are going to complete the entire building before the end of the year, install a full end-to-end fibre data link to complement the state-of-the-art telecommunications and infrastructure. “With that in place, from these lecture halls, we can run programmes from Harvard to Silicon Valley Business School to ISM Paris and many more business schools online and real time for our best and brightest on the continent. If we educate and expose one mind who goes, innovates and solves a problem, imagine the compound effect of that on Africa.”