By Kingsley Nwezeh The Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu, yesterday ordered a full-scale manhunt for the killers of eight policemen and a woman in Isanlu, Yagba East Local Government Area of Kogi State during a bank robbery operation. The IG has also deployed a team of crack detectives from the Intelligence Response Team (IRT), the Special Tactical Squad (STS) and Federal-SARS to Kogi State to ensure that the criminals are apprehended and brought to book. The robbers had before embarking on the robbery operation lobbed a dynamite into the police station which exploded, killing the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) and seven other policemen. The gang of robbers later proceeded to the branch of the old generation bank where they opened fire on the bank premises, killing a woman, who came to transact business. A Police Force Headquarters statement issued in Abuja said the IGP had also directed the Assistant Inspector-General (AIG) of Police in charge of the Zone 8 Police Headquarters, Lokoja, AIG Yunana Babas, to immediately assess and review the security arrangement in Kogi State in order to prevent any future occurrence of such untoward incident. “The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has ordered a full-scale manhunt for the perpetrators of the attack on Isanlu Police station and a commercial bank in Yagba East LGA of Kogi State on 4th June, 2020. “The IGP while condemning the incident, has deployed a team of crack detectives from the Intelligence Response Team (IRT), the Special Tactical Squad (STS) and Federal-SARS to Kogi State to ensure that the criminals are apprehended and brought to book,” it said. It said the AIG was to personally oversee the ongoing investigations into the attack and coordinate intelligence that will lead to unearthing the whereabouts of the hoodlums and the circumstances surrounding the unfortunate incident. “The IGP condoles the families of the police officers and other persons who lost their lives in the course of duty during the encounter with the hoodlums. “He calls on the Isanlu Community and the entire people of Kogi State to remain calm and to avail the police with credible information that will help in the speedy arrest of the criminal elements”, the statement signed by Force PRO and Deputy Commisioner of Police (DCP), Frank Mba, said.