Ijaw National Leader, Chief Edwin Clark, has endorsed the senatorial ambition of the immediate past Governor of Bayelsa State, Mr. Henry Seriake Dickson, to represent Bayelsa West senatorial district. The Media Advisor to the former Governor, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, quoted Clark as calling on Ijaw leaders across the country to support the ex-governor for the vacant senatorial slot in the collective interest of the Ijaw nation and the Niger Delta. Clark said that Bayelsa and the Ijaw nation were seriously in need of men of demonstrable character, courage, capacity and knowledge like Dickson to run for Senate. He said that the former governor possesses vast experience in leadership, the political network, and the requisite knowledge to effectively tackle the critical issues of interest to the Ijaw nation such as resource control, true federalism, restructuring, power devolution among others. The elder statesman said that Dickson should be backed for the senatorial slot as his antecedents have rightly portrayed him as a man of immense courage, integrity and honour who has never for once succumbed to intimidation of whatever form. Clark stressed that Dickson was well-equipped and prepared to defend the interest of the Ijaw nation, the Niger Delta, the South- South and to collaborate with his counterparts in other parts of the country to make Nigeria a better country. He said that the ex-governor left behind a record of sterling performance as a member of the House of the House of Representatives and as Governor of Bayelsa State for eight years. Clark recalled that the former governor declared emergency in the education sector, established two universities, a polytechnic, several free boarding secondary schools, the Bayelsa International Airport, Roads and bridges, and several facilities in the health, agriculture, and other sectors. “The Ijaw nation today, more than ever before, needs people with strong character, to run for the Senate, to tackle the lingering issues, and the interest of the Ijaw nation, the Niger Delta; such as restructuring, true federalism, resource control, and other pertinent matters in the defense of the Ijaw interest, the South-south and indeed the country.