Emma Okonji The IderaOS has said it is introducing its flagship product, ListBuy, a free e-commerce software platform with escrow payment technology that can protect online buyers from fraud, sell virtually anywhere, while accepting all kinds of local payments and e-commerce delivery to customers. Listbuy guarantees that customers get exactly what they ordered as it leverages on the software’s product verification system and escrow service that is built in for every merchant’s store. This way IderaOS makes online selling more secure for customers and merchants. IderaOS is derived from the Yoruba root word “Idera” which means ease.
Designed for small and medium enterprise business (SME) owners and Droopshippers, among others, ListBuy is an e-commerce platform that helps users sell products with ease. This platform enables businesses manage their storefront from one control panel. It allows a user to customise its storefront, display and organise its products, accept a wide range of payment options from buyers and, fulfill orders without the typical delivery hassles that the sector is facing presently. The IderaOS software solution also aims at bringing transparency to the online business sector in Africa and in no distant time become a one-stop shop for starting an online business. It intends to get at least 5,000 businesses up and running and these businesses can keep making money, daily. Founder of IderaOS, Mr. Olalekan Quadry, who has over 10 years experience working with international companies like Accenture and Unicom Engineering, said: “We chose to work on this idea because it presents an opportunity to reduce poverty and create prosperity by accelerating the creation and expansion of small businesses. “A one stop-shop for setting up and running your business online while making use of our local marketplace ecosystem and escrow service to increase customer trust, ListBuy is deliberately designed to give the African entrepreneur a niche in the growing global e-commerce industry.” Co-founder of IderaOS, Rasheed Ridwan, a domain expert, product specialist and small business consultant, said: “Running an online business in Africa is not just about building an online e-commerce store on platforms which might work elsewhere in the world for the common reason that Africa does not have a supported ecosystem. An e-commerce business owner needs an ecosystem that will be conducive for them to operate their business anywhere in the world, and this is what ListBuy is providing.”