SOCIETY WATCH By Adebayo Adeoye  Dr Kayode Ajulo is a man of many parts: a lawyer, activist, philanthropist and politician. However, unlike some others who profess to wear many caps as he is, Ajulo shines brilliantly playing all these roles. Even cynics, who would want to underrate the personality of this upwardly mobile and cerebral lawyer, have been found to exercise restraint in their diatribes because of Ajulo’s great feats. Today, the wide acceptance he enjoys did not fall on his laps; rather, his success story rests solidly on hard work, consistency, honesty and humility. It is also clear that the former Board Chairman of Ondo State Radio vision Corporation, OSRC, Ajulo, who enjoys abundant grace of God, boasts an intimidating profile. In the nation’s legal firmament, Ajulo, a renowned rights activist, is lucky to have handled briefs that make him the envy of many of his contemporaries. As a partisan politician, Ajulo, the Mayegun Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land, can also hold his own any day. At the moment, Ajulo, who is also the B’amofin of Akure land, is under pressure to contest the next governorship in the state. According to his fans, his experience while he worked in the Buhari campaign organization, Forward with Buhari, as a founding member and executive secretary, would sure give him an edge over other contestants. Already, his friends and associates with warchest and deep pocket have reportedly resolved to prosecute the project. However, the amiable gentleman, who was a former Senatorial candidate and one-time National Secretary of Labour Party, has continued to reiterate that he is more committed to his legal practice than politics. In other words, he’s not ready to be distracted, believing that there is time and season for everything. Apart from his passion for law, which has given him fame and wealth, he is also committed to the worship of God. In recognition of his piety and propagation of Christianity, Ajulo was recently appointed to represent Ondo Province in the 18-man National Committee for Relief for the Church of Nigeria by the new Primate of the Anglican Church of Nigeria, Most Reverend Henry Ndukuba. The Committee donated reliefs and medical materials worth millions of Naira to the federal government that was received by the Secretary to the Government of Federation, Boss Mustapha.