Chinedu Eze The Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) said it has commenced the relocation of its corporate headquarters to Abuja, from Lagos. This is in compliance with the ministerial directive that ordered all aviation agencies to relocate their corporate headquarters to Abuja.
The agency said the Commissioner/CEO, Akin Olateru and other strategic officers had since been operating from Abuja. “This is to ensure an efficient and effective coordination and enhanced service delivery between the Federal Ministry of Aviation and its agencies,” AIB said in statement. The agency recalled that the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, had in a letter dated May 4, 2020 had ordered all the agencies under the Ministry to relocate their Headquarters office to the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja within 45days. The letter read in part: “I am di¬rected to remind you of the pres-idential directive issued in 2012 requesting agencies under the ministry to relocate their corporate headquarters to the Federal Capital Territory for efficient and effective coordination and enhanced service delivery between the ministry and its agencies and to note that, eight years after the directives, the agen¬cies are yet to comply. “Accordingly, considering the cur¬rent situation and the economic im¬pact worldwide, as well as the need to reduce the cost of governance and manage the scare resources in a sustainable way, it has become im¬perative and further to the Hon. Minister’s directives (copy at¬tached) to request that you facilitate and complete the relocation exercise of your corporate headquarters to Abuja within the next 45 days, in line with earlier directives. “Further to the directive given by the Federal Ministry of Aviation, Accident Investigation Bureau, Nigeria has strictly adhered to this directive by relocating its Head office to its office in Abuja, with the Commissioner/CEO and other essential staff reporting for duty at the Headquarters Office in Abuja. According to the Bureau, “this is an ongoing process, which will take a while for other essential staff to relocate to the Head Office considering the lockdown and funding to aid the relocation,” AIB also said in the statement. The Bureau said it has also effected the changes on all its social media platforms and other formal means of communications. Other affected agencies included the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) and Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). The other two agencies were already outside Lagos; Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMET) has always been in Abuja, while the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), has its head office in Zaria, Kaduna State.