Huawei has launched an intelligent collaboration product called IdeaHub to drive enterprise collaboration in the sub-Saharan Africa region. In a statement by the firm, it said the online product launch themed “Huawei IdeaHub-Intelligence at Your Fingertips” was attended by over 300 African business leaders and ICT experts, who exchanged views on digitisation of African enterprises. It also stated that with distance economy, people will likely stay online in this era of social distancing, adding that remote working the need for digitisation has become more crucial amid the Covid-19 pandemic, as noted in a recent McKinsey report, Reopening and Reimagining Africa. Huawei said improving communication and collaboration in organisations is going to be the ‘new normal’, while a new generation of intelligent office collaboration product is needed to accelerate this revolution. IdeaHub, it explained, is a productivity tool developed by Huawei to enable all-scenario smart office, an intelligent endpoint which integrates multiple functions including multi-screen collaboration between mobiles and PCs, interactive whiteboard, remote collaboration, FHD video conferencing and built-in HD AppGallery. The firm stated that this will change the way different departments talk to each other within a company and enhance the customer engagement experience, adding that the product even offers a “virtual exhibition” of products and services. The statement quoted the President of Huawei Enterprise Business Group in Southern Africa, Liao Yong, as saying that since staying online as a result of Covid-19 will likely become a permanent feature of corporate culture, Huawei IdeaHub can be both “disruptive” and “constructive” for African firms. “It is disruptive since it can break down silos and enable employees to share ideas like never before. It is commercially, and even culturally ‘constructive’ as it could help companies build up an intelligent work environment where ideas and information can flow more freely for enhanced efficiency and lower operation costs,” Liao was quoted as saying. In order to further explore the needs of enterprise users and provide them with an advanced productivity tool enabling all-scenario smart office, Huawei also launched its “1+3+X” all-scenario smart office strategy with multiple smart office equipment and supporting software ecosystem, the statement said. According to Liao, “One step further, this may well be an opportunity for African firms to drive their organisational digitisation by not only investing in IT, but restructuring work processes and digitising work culture correspondingly. When African entrepreneurs envision the future of their business, the Huawei smart office solutions should have its place.”