By Francis Sardauna The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. General Tukur Buratai, has challenged troops in the North-west theatre of operation to brace up for the final defeat of bandits and kidnappers terrorizing the region, saying there is no excuse for failure. He warned the troops of impending grave consequences should they abandon their positions in the face of firepower from the hoodlums who have being launching deadly attacks on communities within the zone. Buratai gave the warning on Sunday night in Batsari Local Government Area of Katsina State while addressing Special Forces fighting bandits in the area shortly after a special dinner with them. He urged the troops to adopt all the needed tactics and operational techniques required in war battles to end banditry in North-west, particularly in Katsina State. He affirmed that the insecurity bedevilling the states in the region was unpredictable and asymmetric in nature, hence the need for the personnel to use their training skills to end the scourge. Buratai said the Nigerian Army had taken delivery of more equipment and platforms that would be deployed in various theatres of operations, including Katsina to enhance the speedy completion of the ongoing war against banditry and insurgency. According to him, “There is no excuse for failure in military operations. Whatever happens, you must try your best to achieve results by applying all the techniques, tactics and the procedures that are required in battle craft and operational techniques. “This is the best way for us to deal with these criminals. I assure you that we have a lot of equipment that are on the way, including additional ammunition, weapons, platforms and vehicles. “This type of conflict is unpredictable and asymmetric in nature. In this context, you know that the best approach to handle the conflict is to apply the same asymmetric concept and that is why we made tremendous efforts to make sure that you receive the special training. “We will continue to train and motivate you to be able to handle this challenge squarely. We know the terrain is very wide; we know some limitations. We urge you to remain committed and continue to apply the training that you receive to ensure that these criminals are dealt with.” Buratai is in Katsina State on operational tour to military formations in the state, where he visited 171 Battalion, Daura; Special Forces Camp in Batsari; and proposed military barrack site in Daura. He also paid courtesy call on the Emir of Daura, Dr. Umar Farouk Umar; District Head of Batsari, Alhaji Tukur Mu’azu; and is expected to pay similar visit to Governor Aminu Bello Masari and the Emir of Katsina, Dr. Abdulmumini Kabir Usman Monday.