FoodCo Foundation, the Corporate Social Responsibility arm of FoodCo Nigeria Limited, has supported COVID-19 fight in Oyo State by donating Personal Protective Equipment. Commenting on the gesture, a member of FoodCo Foundation board, Ade Sun-Basorun, stated that the donation was in line with the company’s resolve to continually support government, frontline workers and other vulnerable groups in the fight against COVID-19 disease. Sun-Basorun commended the health workers at the frontline, particularly for the patience and hardwork they have exhibited in a trying period. He expressed optimism that the country will defeat the challenges introduced by the pandemic and also sought for active intervention of stakeholders in tackling the scourge. He said: “We are appreciative of the efforts that government institutions at both the Federal, State and Local Government levels are putting in to combat COVID 19 challenge. We are confident that the efforts, complemented with private sector intervention, will lead us on the path to emerging stronger and better from present circumstances. “We also appreciate the sacrifice and tenacity of front-line workers who have had to endure not only the disruptions to their lives but continue to put themselves as well as their families at risk. We salute their courage and thank them for the commendable commitment that they have shown till date.” Speaking further, he said. “As a business, we have had to adapt several of our practices to ensure the safety of our staff and customers. In addition to adhering to health and safety guidelines mandated by the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) such as enforcing social distancing within all FoodCo facilities, restricting customer traffic, monitoring temperature levels of visitors, instituting a No Mask, No Entry policy, and maintaining an hourly deep cleaning procedure across our outlets, we also recently launched an online supermarket and complementary delivery service as alternative shopping channels for people who would rather stay home.” The Items donated were: face hoods, PPE guards, N45 respirators as well as a UV sterilizing chamber.