Kayode Fasua in Abeokuta The Ogun State Governor, Mr. Dapo Abiodun, thursday appointed the Paramount Monarch of Ijebuland, the Awujale, Oba Sikiru Adetona, as the chairman of the state’s newly inaugurated Community Policing Advisory Committee. The octogenarian royal father is also the chairman of the State’s Council of Traditional Rulers. However, the State’s Commissioner of Police, Mr. Kenneth Ebrimson, would serve as the committee’s co-chairman. Other members of the committee include heads of all security agencies in the state, the heads the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) respectively, as well as the executive members of the Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC) and representatives of the three senatorial districts in the state. Abiodun also declared that the attainment of comprehensive police service reform is only means the advisory committee could leave an indelible footprints in the sands of time, otherwise its existence would be in vain. The governor commended the favourable dispensation of the Inspector General of Police, Mr. Muhammed Adamu, towards promoting community policing in the present day Nigeria. He was optimistic that the police hierarchy would continue to motivate its personnel to enable them to discharge their duties in a way that would endear them to the hearts of the citizens. “I admire the respect for human rights that is a major component of the programme. I welcome the openness, the accountability and the transparency that are hallmarks of community policing. “We welcome the desire of the police to partner with the government and various communities in the state,” he enthused. The governor also assured the committee that his administration would provide logistic supports to the police in order to ensure that all the neighbourhoods in Ogun State would remain crime-free. He also called on every resident in the state to embrace the initiative and become stakeholders in the course of peace and security by assisting the police always in preventing crime. “I am looking forward to a harmonious relationship and partnership among all the security agencies on one hand and the public on the other hand,” he said. In his remarks, the Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of Training, Mr. David Folawiyo, described the community policing initiative as a new dawn in Nigeria. “The people are now coming out to own their system. Volunteers are coming out and we’ll select. “I have advised men and officers of the force to collaborate and work with the people so that community policing will stay and stand the test of time,” he stressed.