Rebecca Ejifoma Ace musician Timi Dakolo, Edirin Edewor, and Stephen Obi were among the 25 recipients of the Social Media for Social Good Summits & Awards Africa 2020. Social Media for Social Good Summits & Awards Africa, celebrating excellence, is dedicated to uncovering individuals and organisations using social media for social good by rewarding their efforts with public accolades and as done since early 2019. These 25 personalities emerged from the list of 100 nominees who being celebrated as top 100 social media influencers for social good. While Mo Abudu, Durotoye, Ikpeazu and Alakija were the four recipients of the honourary awards, Timi Dakolo, Sega Link, Edirin Edewor, Steph Obi, Ifeoma Ben were among the 25 awarded. According to the organisers, Engage Empower Educate Initiative (EEEI) an NGO based in Nigeria, the award initiative was developed out of grievance for the prevalence of malice and misinformation on social media. Speaking at the virtual summit and awards, the Founder of EEEI, Kalada Meshack-Hart expressed his passion for birthing the much applauded project. “Those that use their platforms online for good must be recognised and awarded”. This year’s event had over 3500 participants and four speakers at the summit which preluded the awards. After a strict nomination and selection process, voting opened on May 26 and closed on June 8 with over 50,000 votes in two weeks. Some of the awardees of each category are: Random Acts of Kindness, Girl Hub Africa; Education, Ugochi Obidiegwu (The Safety Chic); Telecommunication, MTN Nigeria; Human Rights/Advocacy, Sega Link; New Media, Edirin Edewor; Environment, Africa Clean Up initiative; Agriculture, My Farm Base Africa, Banking & Finance; Access Bank; NGO, Donors for Africa; Creative Arts, Photowaka Africa. In politics, Governor Seyi Makinde; Food and Beverages, So Fresh Ng; Legal, Ifeoma Ben; ICT, Steph Obi; Personal Development, Foluso Gbadamosi; Health Category, Ask The Paediatrician; Media Category, Kiki Mordi; Entertainment, Debo Adebayo (McMacaroni); Peace Category, Timi Dakolo; Sports Category, Assisat Oshoala. The four special CEO award: Spangler Market, Purity Abhulimhen; Paul Oyewusi; Moments With Bren, The Real Sabi Doctor.