In continuation of his nationwide efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Ooni of Ife, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunlusi, Ojaja II, has donated four modula motorised fumigators to the Enugu State government as part of his contributions to fight the virus. The revered royal father, who sent a delegation to the Government House, Enugu, to deliver the four modula motorised fumigators extolled the leadership qualities of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. Presenting the equipment, the leader of delegation, Princess Fadekemi Fadojutimi, thanked Ugwuanyi “for the hospitality he has shown to us”, disclosing that the Imperial Majesty’s decision to donate the fumigators was borne out of his selfless service for the country. Stressing that “COVID-19 is real”, Fadojutimi maintained that the Ooni of Ife is committed to joining hands with the government in fighting the pandemic. She disclosed that the equipment was “locally produced right at the back of the Ooni’s palace”, adding that the chemical sustenance is “body friendly” and not harmful to health. While emphasising the importance “to disinfect our environments”, Fadojutimi explained that the modula motorised fumigator “has a droplet that kills germs or virus”. She stated that can be used to fumigate markets or other public areas where people gather, pointing out that “we also have a drone that covers above the normal surface”. “The chemical like I said is very body friendly. It is a solution that was mixed with sodium and hydrochloride. So it is not harmful to the body”, she said. Responding, Ugwuanyi, who was represented by his deputy, Mrs. Cecilia Ezeilo, thanked the Ooni of Ife for the gesture and his steadfastness in thinking outside the box to proffer ideas on how to fight the pandemic in the country. She pointed out that the invention will not only assist in containing the spread of the virus, but will also create employment for Nigerians, saying: “We cannot thank him enough; we pray for him and wholeheartedly accept these donations”. Other members of the delegation include: HRM Oba Awosunle Tokunbo Babatunde (the Eleyesi of Ejesiyka), Mr. Morakinyo Daramola, Ayoyemi Osumeye and Mr. Dipo Adeyemi.