Demola Ojo The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, saturday stated that the 2020 governorship election in the state would reshape the nation’s democracy. The governor spoke during a ‘Thank You Tour’ to principal officers and ward leaders in Oredo Local Government Area (LGA) of Edo State, noting that he won his ward contrary to statements credited to his opponents.
Obaseki urged the Edo people to be wary of the antics of those spreading rumours in the run-up to the elections scheduled for September this year. Obaseki also described as laughable, rumours doing the rounds that he lost his ward in the last general election, saying those who make up such stories forget that election results are documented. The governor, yesterday, denied allegations that he forged certificate of University of Ibadan, stating that he was not like those that burn buildings to cover up their certificate scandals, more so that no one could forge a certificate issued by the University of Ibadan, a foremost citadel of learning. His words: “When people come out to lie that I didn’t win my ward during the last election, they forget that election results are documented. They say I forged my certificate. How can you forge the certificate of the University of Ibadan? I am not like those that burn buildings to cover up their certificate issues.” The governor however noted that the forthcoming governorship election in the state would be a watershed moment in Nigeria’s nascent democracy, adding that the polls would change the face of Nigeria’s elections and strengthen her democracy. Speaking on why he visited the area, Obaseki said, “I am just going round to say thank you to my people for their support so far. I am assuring them that I will continue my good work in the state. “We have been practising democracy for 21 years now. We cannot continue to behave the same way. This time, we will change the narrative. This will be a government of the people by the people and for the people. It will not be a government of the people by a few people.” The APC leaders in Oredo, comprising Hon. Austin Eweka of ward one; Martins Osakue of ward two; Charles Atiemwen of ward three; Oteghe Adams of ward four; Taiye Omoregie of ward six as well as other leaders and principal officers of the party in the local council, pledged their loyalty and continuous support for the governor based on his track record of success achieved in the last three and a half years. Also, during the visit, the APC leader, Oredo ward four, Adams, presented the result of the 2019 general election, displaying the tallies for House of Representatives, Senatorial and Presidential elections, where it was clearly shown that the governor won his ward convincingly. Obaseki was accompanied on the visit by his Chief of Staff, Mr Osaze Uzamere; Special Adviser on Political and Community Matters, Chief Osaro Idah; Special Adviser on Politics, (Edo South), Hon. Osaigbovo Iyoha, and APC Chairman in Oredo LGA, Mr. Godwin Alabi, among others.