Emma Okonji The newly upgraded Access Bank mobile app that was renamed as ‘AccessMore’, has continued to advance digital banking across African countries. The new and improved app offers a series of distinctive features, which give it an edge over other mobile banking apps and has arguably positioned Access Bank as the best digital bank in Africa. The app gives users unrestricted and secure access to their account anytime, anywhere. No doubt, the phenomenon of mobile apps has become an integral aspect of banking, especially nowadays when over half of the world’s population own a mobile device. The AccessMore app was built to resonate with the lifestyle of users, giving them an excellent banking experience. Users can now perform the following on their mobile app: Dubai Visa Application, Flight Booking, Target Savings, Foreign Currency Transfers, Account Opening for new customers (personal and business), Customizable Dashboards, just to mention a few. Speaking about the upgrade app, the Chief Executive Officer of Access Bank Plc, Herbert Wigwe, stated that: “In a period like this, we need to be more present and relevant, now more than ever, in the lives of our customers. We have risen to the challenge to ensure our customers have unlimited access to their funds and can transact while keeping safe at home and enjoying not only uninterrupted service but superior service.” According to him, launching the AccessMore app was an attempt to continually give Access Bank customers ‘more’ and as such, the Bank worked with first-class tech experts to build a mobile app that suits customers’ lifestyles as well as financial needs. “The Bank is currently the largest retail bank in Africa with about 40 million customers. The Bank has relentlessly upheld its ‘more than banking’ promise which has inarguably given them an advantage over competition. To appreciate and encourage its customers to keep using its digital channels to transact, Access Bank will be awarding customers with a brand new car in the quarterly draws. The transact and win promo will run from April to December 2020 and all customers who complete ten transactions using the USSD service or their digital channels (old Access Mobile, old Diamond mobile or the new AccessMore app, *901#) are eligible to win,” Wigwe said.