Michael Orodare Depending on the side of the divide from which we’ve experienced the Nigerian police, some of us may argue for or vehemently against the saying that “the police is your friend,”however, we can all agree that police need our support to play their roles effectively. Policing is a community effort, instances where the Nigerian police have recorded success in the fight against insecurity, they’ve had the full support and co-operation of members of the community; whether in intelligence sharing, provision of equipment and or general welfare. The Lagos state government’s security trust fund is an initiative that best explains how policing requires the involvement of everyone for it to succeed. Officially known as the Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF), the LSSTF is a public-private partnership that utilises donations from corporate organisations and individuals to tackle the challenges of security in the state. Aside from the contributions to this laudable initiative, there have been supports from organisations to either the overall police apparatus in the state or the Force’s sister organisations. Recently, the MTN Foundation donated medical equipment to the Nigerian Police Hospital, Falomo, Ikoyi. Given to help the hospital offer good medical services to its patients, the donation which consists of three patient vital sign monitors, two cardiotocography machines, two radiant warmers and one 1.5HP split unit air conditioner, is part of MTN Nigeria’s wider CSR outreach focused at providing medical materials to numerous health-related organizations and associations. Receiving the donations, the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Nigerian Police Hospital Falomo, Abiodun Sobowale, thanked MTN for the support: “We are thankful for the company’s donations. MTN has always been a strong and patriotic supporter of the Police and we recognise this. The management of the Nigerian Police Hospital Falomo, appreciate this gesture and we pledge to use this equipment to give good health to our patients that trust us with their health.” It is becoming more obvious that if Nigeria must succeed as a secured country, all hands must be on deck to ensure that we win the war against insecurity; both individuals and organisations must do their best, and as the acting Executive Secretary of the MTN Foundation, Odunayo Sanya, has implored all of us to know that, “We are stronger together, now more than ever”. So, while you’re out about your personal business, understand that there is a need for everyone to reach out to their communities and assist in whatever way they can. A dose of good every day is all we need to continue to reassure each other that we can weather through everything. Let us all continue to explore ways to ease the burdens that these times have created. * Michael Orodare writes from Lagos