By Deji Elumoye Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and his predecessor, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, have described the late former governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi as a bridge builder and patriot. In separate condolence messages, the duo eulogised the immediate past governor of Oyo State who was also a Senator during the Fifth National Assembly. Omo-Agege noted that the late Ajimobi would be remembered for his patriotism and passionate commitment to delivering dividends of democracy to the people. While expressing shock and sadness over the unfortunate incident, the Deputy Senate President said the All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain left at a time his experience as an astute administrator would be needed most. “As a senator in 2003 and governor of Oyo State between 2011 and 2019, his immense contributions to the development of the state and country will remain evergreen in our hearts,” he noted. While extending his condolences to the government and people of the state and praying to the Almighty God to grant his soul eternal rest, Omo-Agege called on Nigerians to remember his family in their prayers at these trying moments. In his reaction, Ekweremadu, described the late Ajimobi, as a bridge builder The former Deputy Senate President eulogised the late former Senator as an accomplished public administrator, legislator per excellent, pan Nigerian, and bridge builder. He expressed sadness over his demise describing it as a grave loss to the nation. The Chairman of the Senate committee on Environment said: “I received with a deep sense of loss the passing on of my friend, brother, and colleague in the 5th Senate, Distinguished Senator Isiaka Abiola Ajimobi. “As a grandson of the a former chief in the revered Ibadan royal court and scion of former member of the defunct Western Region House of Assembly, Ajimobi brought his rich political background to bear in his service to his people and the nation as a whole. “He no doubt excelled in political engineering and mobilisation and will forever be remembered as a jinx breaker, being the first to be reelected for a second term in office as Governor of Oyo State. “Even in death, he is not diminished. Although he lost the protracted battle for his life, it will always be said of him that he came, he saw, and he conquered.”