Sparkle, a digital ecosystem providing financial, lifestyle and business support services to Nigerians across the globe has been launched. Sparkle was founded by tech investor and financial inclusion advocate, Uzoma Dozie, the former Chief Executive Officer of Diamond Bank. Uzoma currently runs an online TV show called Tech Turks, that shines light on entrepreneurs. He also launched TechFest in 2018 in Lagos, Nigeria. According to a statement, the start-up which has been granted a banking license by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), has been built to help Nigerians fulfil their potential. It stated that Sparkle offers comprehensive support for individuals, including flexible payments, savings and analytics to provide greater freedom, flexibility and control over finances and lifestyle once and for all. “Powered by data and technology, Sparkle is launching a mobile app – available for iOS and Android – giving customers full and free access to one account that offers multiple services and different wallets. “Sparkle’s users will be provided with visibility over spending patterns, with a detailed breakdown of payments by category. Tools such as Sparkle Stash, a savings tool aimed towards specific goals, are included. Users will also have the ability to split payments and bills, make utilities and bill payments, as well as send and receive money in the Sparkle network and with other local banks. Customers will also have access to Indy – a 24/7 financial buddy and customer services chatbot,” it explained. Speaking on the new digital platform, Dozie said: “Sparkle will be transformational for Nigerians across the globe and I am hugely excited to be launching it today. Sparkle is redefining Nigerian commerce by merging financial services with a seamless lifestyle solution. “We are removing barriers using technology and data, driving inclusion at scale. In doing so, we are empowering Nigerians to fulfil their potential, democratising access to valuable solutions for both business and personal needs.” Sparkle is partnering with VISA, Microsoft and PwC Nigeria to achieve its vision of redefining Nigerian commerce. The partnership would provide industry leading expertise in APIs, cloud computing, data science, machine learning, tax and financial advisory services for the benefit of Sparkle’s customers. The services offered by Sparkle are all licensed by the CBN. Speaking further, Dozie said: “We are working with global partners to unleash freedom, flexibility and transparency in Nigeria. We are helping to drive forward the growth of Nigeria’s budding entrepreneurs and individuals. Join us to make history as we enter the future of commerce and look towards this exciting phase of growth.”