Kayode Fasua in Abeokuta Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has commended journalists in the state for helping to create the needed awareness to flatten the curve of Covid-19 . He made the remarks in Abeokuta, at the weekend while giving the people on government’s efforts on curtailing the spread of the disease. Abiodun also thanked health workers across the state and security agents for helping to prevent what would have been a health disaster . “As always, I specially thank all our frontline workers -doctors, nurses, pharmacists, medical lab scientists, supporting personnel and indeed all health workers. “ I commend the resilience and understanding of security personnel, journalists and other essential workers for their cooperation in the efforts to flatten the curve of Covid-19. There is no doubt in my mind that, together, we will banish Covid-19 from our lands,” he enthused. On the occasion, the Correspondents Chapel presented the governor with a plaque to commemorate his 60th birthday. Presenting the item, a former chairman of the NUJ in Ogun State, Mr. Niyi Ogungbola, said that journalists in the state were proud of Abiodun’s commitment to the state. In his response, an impressed Abiodun described the NUJ and its Correspondent Chapel as pivotal to the dissemination of government activities, hence he held them in high esteem. Meanwhile, the Federal Medical Centre, Idi- Aba, Abeokuta, has recorded two new cases of the Coronavirus disease. A statement by the Head, Public Relations and Information Unit of the Centre, Mr. Segun Orisajo, said one of the two patients died before the outcome of the result of her samples .
“The deceased was a 43-year old trader, who lived at Ota. “She was admitted at the centre and was being managed for decompensated chronic liver disease and covid-19
“The deceased was subsequently screened but passed away later that day. “The result of her samples returned positive some moments ago. “The second patient is a 40 year old man who was on referral from Joga Orile Primary Health Centre . He is being managed for sepsis with a chest focus. “He was subsequently screened and the result of his samples returned positive. The patient is currently in the centre’s isolation. He has sustained clinical improvement,” Orisajo revealed.