Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal Saturday received a blueprint on ‘Sustainable Growth and Development Strategies for Sokoto state in a Post Covid-19 Era’ from Usman Danfodio University Sokoto. A statement by the governor’s Special Assistant on Media, Mohammed Bello, said Tambuwal stated that Sokoto government was working on all fronts to ensure the development of the state in all sectors of human endeavor. He explained that his administration had been working on the establishment of new irrigation schemes, general agricultural development, economic growth and harnessing of arts and culture resources. According to him, agricultural development, with a view to improving economic growth in the state, is one of the priorities of his administration He said presently the state government is working on the establishment of new irrigation schemes at Rabah and Silame local government areas, in addition to the ongoing renovation of Wurno irrigation scheme. This, he said, is in order to improve food security in the state. Governor Tambuwal also maintained that the state government in its effort to improve business activities, will establish a new industrial layout in order to provide enabling environment for business communities. Another business opportunity established in the state, according to the governor, was the Sokoto State Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Development Agency, SOSMEDA, so as to provide soft loans to small and medium entrepreneurs in the state. The state, he said, has also established a Micro Finance Bank to assist businessmen with capital in order to boost their businesses. Tambuwal added that another bank, the Taj Bank, in which N500 million out of the N1 billion required as capital investment, will soon come on board in the state. He said when the bank takes off , it would also boost the economic growth of the state by providing assistance to businessmen and farmers in the state. On the development of arts and culture, Tambuwal said, plans has reached advanced stage to collaborate with Indonesia and Turkey whose models of arts and culture management has reached an advanced stage. Governor Tambuwal thanked the management of Usmanu Danfodiyo University led by its Vice Chancellor Professor Lawal Suleman Bilbis for their effort in documenting the blueprint on economic growth of Sokoto state. He assured that his administration would continue to partner with them in all the areas of development of the state. Earlier in his address the Vice Chancellor of Usmanu Danfodiyo, Professor Lawal Suleman Bilbis, said the gesture of documenting a blueprint was as a result of the economic setback occasioned by outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.