Ernest Chinwo in Port Harcourt An indigenous oil firm, Eroton Exploration and Production Company, has donated a 16-seater bus and medical supplies to boost the efforts of the Rivers State Government to curb the spread of the COVID-19 in the state. The medical supplies included 6,000 face masks and oxygen concentrators to aid the works of the state medical team. Presenting the items worth millions of Naira to Governor Nyesom Wike at the state’ warehouse in Port Harcourt, Eroton’s Operations Manager, Mr. Emmanuel Thompson, said the gesture was part of the firm’s efforts to assist the government in fighting the pandemic. He said the firm earlier provided food palliatives, surgical masks and other items to its host communities and the independent petroleum producers, adding that its latest intervention was the culmination of the company’s palliatives on COVID-19. He commented the state’s efforts at checking the spread of the pandemic in the state and said it was necessary for every responsible corporate organisation to support the state. He said the company had no doubts that the state government would put the items to good use and ensure that the items were deployed to help victims of the disease and stop the spread of the pandemic. Thompson also said despite operating in the oil sector, the company had not recorded any case of infections, adding that Eroton was following all measures outlined by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the state government to stop the spread of the disease. “This is just one of the things we have done in supporting the government. We started with our host communities where we gave surgical masks and later we went to the independent petroleum producers group and we also supported them with items. Then the last time we went to the communities where we gave out food palliatives. “We know the government will use the items so that the people, who actually need them benefit from them. We have not really had any case in our organisation. We are also working with the government and other agencies to make sure we do what is required of us”. Receiving the items, Wike, who was represented by the Secretary to State Government, Dr. Tammy Dagogo, commended the firm for identifying with the government and the downtrodden. He said the government would officially publish Eroton, other firms and individuals that supported its fight against the virus.