Since the 9th National Assembly was inaugurated as well as my resumption in office at the National Assembly as the Honourable member representing the good people of Adavi/Okehi federal constituency of Kogi State, Hon. Joseph Asuku Bello pen an appreciation letter. Excerpt from his commendation letter: “l am eternally grateful and thankful to God Almighty for His grace upon my life. I pray for God to continue to guide and direct me through this journey, AMEN. “I want to use this opportunity to extend my sincere gratitude and appreciation to the good people of Adavi/Okehi federal constituency, especially all the leaders, Exco and members of our great party, All Progressive Congress (APC), for giving me the opportunity to represent them in the Green Chamber. Worthy of mention in this regard, is the love and support of His Excellency, Alhaji Yahaya Adoza Bello, the Executive Governor of Kogi State, who has been a mentor and Big brother in my political career. Indeed, words are not enough to express my profound gratitude to you Sir. “My dear people of Adavi /Okehi Federal Constituency, from the day I was inaugurated as your representative, I took on the responsibility of being your advocate and collective voice at the National Assembly. I am happy to let you all know that within this one year, I have proposed three Bills and six Motions, which are at various stages of legislative consideration. Equally, I have been active in supporting motions and making useful contributions to national issues on the floor of the House and in committee sessions. “Suffice to say that, I also participated in many oversight visits and functions. These to me has been a worthwhile experience that will help me to make more fruitful contributions in the years ahead to the development of my constituency and nation especially through my legislative duties. My constituency office which is located in Obangede community is made up of staff which cut across both L.Gs to effectively serve my constituents. This office serves as a community center where my constituents can come to receive a myriad of support thus enabling me to connect with my people. “I am privileged to be a member in 11 strategic committees, including becoming the Kogi State Representative in the Constitution Review Committee. No doubt I have within the period, leverage on these committees and other contacts in the National Assembly to facilitate various employments for over a dozen graduates and trained over 60 women and youths in various skill acquisitions and livelihood. In my commitment to Educational Empowerment for the youths, I awarded scholarships and support to over 200 indigent students in Kogi Central Senatorial District. I also sponsored over 500 students from my constituency in this year’s UTME and WASC examinations. “At the peak of the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and its associated socioeconomic lockdown and hardship, as your responsive representative, I made modest distribution of Palliatives to over 1,000 vulnerable households in the constituency, irrespective of political and religious divides or affiliations. This is in addition to many other informal support in cash and kind to many constituents. “Moving forward, I am committed to leveraging on the experience that I have so far acquired and your continuous kind support and prayers to take my constituency to greater heights. I pray that our great nation Nigeria recovers quickly from the devastating effect of COVID-19 Pandemic and socioeconomic activities return to normalcy. I appeal to my constituents to be patient and adhere to government recommended preventative measures. Once again I sincerely thank you for the opportunity to be your able representative.
God bless the great people of Adavi/Okehi Federal Constituency. God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria”.