Ebere Nwoji The Pension Fund Operators Association (PenOp) has elected Mr. Wale Odutola as its new president. With the election, he would oversee the affairs of the association for the next two years. Odutola, who is the Managing Director ARM Pensions emerged president along other new Executive Committee members who were elected at a recent poll conducted by the association. He was previously the association’s Head of Media and Branding, prior to the election. Odutola takes over from Ronke Adedeji, the erstwhile President and CEO of Leadway Pensure Limited who piloted the affairs of the association in the past two years. Accepting the new office, Odutola thanked Adedeji for her strong and visionary leadership over the last two years and pledged to continue the work that she and the previous executive committee started. He further stressed that the focus of the industry under his tenure would continue to be in ensuring wider coverage of the scheme, promoting ethics within the industry, ensuring that the pension industry contributes to National development, greater engagement with the government and regulators and general up-skilling of pension operators. Other members of the newly elected Executive Committee are Akeeb Akinola, (CEO of Shell Closed Pension Fund Administrator) who was re-elected as the Vice President of the Association; Bayo Yusuf (CEO of UBA Pension Custodian Limited), who retained his position as the Treasurer of the Association; Eric Fajemisin, (CEO of Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers Limited) elected as the Head of the Technical Committee of the Association; Amaka Andy – Azike (CEO of Fidelity Pension Managers Limited) as the Head of Media and Branding Communications for the Association, and Glory Etadouvie (CEO of IEI Anchor Pension Managers Limited) steps in as the Head of Legal, Regulatory and Ethics Committee for the Association. Speaking on the change of leadership baton in the association, PenOp CEO, Oguche Agudah, said the election was a testament to the sound corporate governance practices of the association and the cohesion that has been built within the pension community over the recent years.