By Victor Ogunje Contrary to speculation that some members of the Ekiti State House of Assembly are harbouring ill-feelings against the state Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, the lawmakers have clarified that their relationship with the governor remains strong and cordial. The 26 lawmakers, who were elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), said the state executive and legislature have mutual respect for each other, adding that this will be deployed to overhaul every sector of the economy to benefit the masses, rather than sabotaging the system. The Assembly stated this is a statement in Ado Ekiti at the weekend responding to a caustic comment allegedly made by the Special Adviser to the President on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu, while appearing on a radio programme. During the interview on a local radio station, Ojudu was said to have claimed that some unnamed members of the state House of Assembly were availing with documents of wrongdoings allegedly perpetrated by Fayemi in the running of the state. Debunking the claim in a statement signed by the Chairman, Assembly Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Hon Yemisi Ayokunle, at the weekend maintained that the statement was intended to cause disaffection between the executive and legislature to derail governance. “Ordinarily, we would not have dignified the erstwhile senator with a response, but because of the evil machinations of human minds and the possibility of some gullible minds believing his lies, he should not be allowed to go away with his blue murder and barefaced lies. “We, as an Assembly, and with all emphasis at our disposal, categorically state that there’s no member of our respected Assembly that has any relationship with the ex-senator. “We are men of integrity. We are a set of focused representatives of our people, who cannot be swayed by a character like Ojudu, who prefers to rule in hell than serve in paradise,” he said. The lawmakers challenged the Senator to come clear to substantiate the allegation with verifiable facts and point out the personalities involved in the accusation. According to him, “With our knowledge of the performance and relevance of Ojodu in Ekiti State politics, the regular question our people have always asked him is: ‘Senator Ojudu where are your masses?’ “The sixth Assembly is too focused in law making for the good of our people. We are doing this in active collaboration with the other arms of government especially the executive arm. “We are indeed glad that all the efforts of good governance have been made possible by the enabling laws emanating from the Assembly. They are yielding positive results despite the general dwindling financial resources. Everybody can see these except the ostrich among us-like the former senator. “The road infrastructure is there for everyone to see-Oye-Otun; Aramoko- Erijiyan; New Ado- Iyin Road; Airport project; Agbado-Omuo; Ilupeju-Igbemo among others. Only in the week, the contract for the dualisation of Ado-Akure road, influenced by the governor was awarded by the Federal Executive Council (FEC).” The lawmakers, therefore, advised Ojudu to look elsewhere for his co-travellers in the alleged desperate bid to recruit those that will help his battle against the state government, saying the assembly will never be involved in such a sinister adventure.