Ibrahim Oyewale in Lokoja Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, has condemned wednesday’s attack on commuters on the Lokoja-Abuja highway, which claimed many casualties. Barely seven days after an armed robbery gang attacked a police station and a commercial bank in the state, and killed nine persons, including eight police officers, gunmen suspected to be kidnappers yesterday struck at Gegu, killing two persons and abducting other passengers on Lokoja-Abuja highway. The incident occurred at about 6.30a.m. between Acheni and Gegu in Kogi Local Government Area where many persons were kidnapped The victims of attack included a business mogul and owner of Chucks Supermarket in Lokoja, Mr. Nicolas Ofodile, and one other commercial driver from Gegu town. THISDAY gathered that Ofodile was travelling to Abuja from Lokoja in his private Lexus SUV with registration LKJ 658 PU when he ran into the gunmen’s road block at Gegu, as they were shooting at oncoming vehicles, while the other victim was also killed in the same manner. Sources hinted that about eight vehicles were involved in the attack with several passengers seriously injured while trying to run for cover. It was further gathered that the dare-devil gunmen stopped and attacked commercial vehicles, including a luxury bus, heading towards Abuja, and in the process, kidnapped many people. THISDAY learnt that with the arrival of the police in the area, the suspected kidnappers went to another area to mount another road block. The state Police Public Relation Officer, DSP William Aya, who confirmed the incident, said two persons were killed in their vehicles. Aya pointed out that the owner of Chucks Supermarket and a commercial driver were killed around Gegu. In a press statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mohammmed Onogwu, a copy of which was made available to journalists in Lokoja, Bello commiserated with the families of the deceased and Igbo community in the state. The governor expressed sadness over the incident, which led to the death of Ofodile, a popular businessman in the state as well as one other person who was killed during gun battle between the armed robbers and men of the Special Anti-robbery Squad (SARS), vowing that the perpetrators will be brought to book. The governor described the late Ofodile as a law-abiding successful entrepreneur, who was known for his hard work and commitment in the state. Bello, while commending men of the SARS for prompt response, directed all the security agents in the state to immediately swing into action to apprehend those behind the dastardly acts. He assured the people of the state that his administration would not relent in its efforts to provide adequate security in the state.