The June 24 resumption date for Nigeria international and Lille of France striker, Victor Osimhen to return to his French club could not materialise as the player is still stranded in Nigeria. The French club is therefore making arrangements to send down a private jet to airlift Osimhen back to France as he is yet to resume pre-season preparations with French Ligue 1 club Lille. The Nigeria international was granted compassionate leave to attend the burial of his father and was expected to return to France this week but he’s stranded in Nigeria because the borders are closed to curb the spread of coronavirus. In a chat with reporter yesterday, Lille coach Christophe Galtier explained why his top scorer last season has been absent from training. The 53-year-old said: “No, he did not come back from Nigeria. He had to arrive today. But he is blocked by the health crisis because the borders are closed “. Sport Business Magazine has informed that Lille are prepared to send a private jet to bring back Osimhen but the player and his entourage are yet to receive the green light from the Nigerian authorities. Lille have lined up friendlies in Mouscron and Bruges as part of their preparations for the new season, and are also in talks with Kortrijk and Anderlecht for two other meetings on July 31 and August 1 respectively. However, Galtier has admitted that Osimhen is certain to leave the French Ligue 1 club in the summer transfer window after Premier League side Tottenham Hotspur are said to be in a strong position to sign Osimhen though face competition from Napoli. he was granted compassionate leave to attend the funeral of his father. “Regarding Victor and Gabriel, yes I integrated it, for a long time, that they are leaving, and we are working on players, who are currently here .and who will arrive, likely to replace them,” Galtier stated. Osimhen ended the 2019-2020 campaign as Lille’s top scorer in all competitions with 18 goals to his name in 38 games. Osimhen last summer joined Lille in a €12m move from Sporting Charleroi in a five-year contract at the club until 2024.