Chiemelie Ezeobi and Rebecca Ejifoma Avid photographer, Mrs. Busola Dakolo, has expressed displeasure over the delay by the Federal Ministry of Justice to release the legal advice on her rape allegation against the Founder of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA), Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo, months after the police concluded their investigation. Dakolo, who is the wife of popular musician, Timi Dakolo, had last year accused Fatoyinbo of serially raping her when she was a teenager, an accusation the pastor has repeatedly denied. Dakolo was reacting after a letter by the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID) declaring that they had concluded investigation since March went viral. In the letter signed by Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Admin, Umar Sands Mamma, for the Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG), FCID, the police said they had already concluded investigations into the matter. Dated March 25,2020 but released yesterday, the letter which was addressed to ‘Not in My Church’, a movement fighting against abuse in the church, the FCID said they were waiting for the Director of Public Prosecution of the Federation (DPPF) for legal advice and further necessary action. The letter read: “I refer to your letter addressed to the Inspector General of Police dated February 24, 2020 on the above captioned subject-matter in which you sought to follow up on the investigation into Mrs. Busola Dakolo’s rape allegations against Biodun Fatoyinbo. “I am directed to inform you that the Force Criminal Investigation Department had concluded its investigation and has forwarded the case file to the Director of Public Prosecution of the Federation (DPPF) for legal advice and further necessary action. “Accept the warmest regards of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Force Command Investigation Department.” Reacting to the disclosure by the FCID, Dakolo expressed displeasure over the delay by the DPPF after it received the case file from the police over two months ago. Dakolo in a post on her Instagram page said: “It is now officially one year after I came out and told the most important story of my life up until this point. “When l was a teenager, Biodun Fatoyinbo, violently raped me. It wasn’t just me. On social media and in private, women have been sharing stories of how he either destroyed their lives or tried to. “My heart is glad that consciousness continues to be raised about the great evil that sexual abuse is, how widespread it is, how much women are at risk, and why we need to ensure justice for those who find the strength to speak out. “We have written a letter but for over a month we have no response. Instead, my lawyers and my family have heard about all manner of manipulation and foul play being attempted to stop the ministry from beginning prosecution immediately. Or even to get the police report manipulated. “When the courts last year decided to rule in favour of Fatoyinbo, people were crestfallen. I understood. What they didn’t know is that before we began, we had been prepared for a long haul battle that may take years because the Nigerian legal system isn’t wired to help sexually abused victims get justice. “The police have concluded its investigation and handed over its report to the Ministry of Justice in Abuja for onward prosecution of Biodun Fatoyinbo. “My name is Busola Dakolo, a survivor of one of the most horrific acts -rape. My voice will not be shut down. My case will not be silenced. “l am thankful to those in and out of the police, the ministry and the corridors of power who have called in solidarity and to reassure me that they are monitoring the ministry of justice and that this pressure to bury the case will not succeed. “I am updating the Nigerian public because you all made my story matter. You joined me to say enough is enough. With you, this has been an easier process.“