Ekiti State has climbed higher in the list of Nigerian States whose political exercises are capable of rendering the unsuspecting mind bonkers. This has been the case since Governor Kayode Fayemi emerged as Governor under the aegis of All Progressives Congress (APC). Interestingly, much of the political tremors have developed as a result of the tango of juggernauts of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), especially former governor Ayo Fayose and Senator Biodun Olujimi. The situation in Ekiti State in recent times is quite the dilemma: the one in charge of affairs isn’t responsible for much of the happenings in his own state, whereas the ones rattling the tree of harmony and tranquility are not in the thick of things. As the 2022 gubernatorial elections draw nearer and nearer in Ekiti State, folks have begun to examine these parties—the camp of the not-in-power PDP and the in-power APC. It is obvious that much of the conflict from which the next governor of Ekiti State is going to arise is going to be more internal than inter-party. In addition to the usual contest for power between former governor Ayo Fayose and Senator Abiodun Olujimi, incumbent Governor Kayode Fayemi is now a noticeable spot in the big picture, alongside the silver medalist for Olujimi’s senatorial position, Prince Dayo Adeyeye. At the moment, nothing is set on stone, as folks continue to plot graphs to the effect that this individual will support this other individual, or that this fellow will abscond into this political party. Interestingly, the thread of party membership has crisscrossed that of natural affinity. In other words, it is alleged that Senator Olujimi (of the PDP) will most certainly pledge her support to Governor Kayode Fayemi (of the APC), while Ayo Fayose (of the PDP) might support Prince Dayo Adeyeye (of the APC). Quite the conundrum if such a thing is true. Recall that Governor Kayode Fayemi was among the frontliners who congratulated Senator Biodun Olujimi on her victory over his own party candidate, Prince Adeyeye. As a result, Adeyeye was allegedly among the frontliners who allegedly immediately cut ties with the Governor. Ever since, Olujimi’s loyalties have been under scrutiny—especially since the woman has seemingly sworn to allow no sleep or rest to come to Ayo Fayose, a high-ranking member of her PDP. The whole state of affairs is just mystifying. However, since 2022 is not all that far away, clarity is also not all that far away.