By Kuni Tyessi The Rock of Ages Empowerment Foundation (RAEF), a non governmental organisation, has tasked widows on the preventive measures of the Covid: 19 pandemic, urging them to play their roles in their respective corners, adding that only with such mindset can the virus be nipped in the bud. Founder and chief executive officer of the foundation, Mr. Ignatius Newman, who noted that there’s hope despite the difficult times, made the charge during the organisation’s 10th edition of marking the International Widows Day celebration at Pyakasa, in the Federal Capital Territory. The organization in collaboration with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said the spread of wrong and unconfirmed information about the spread of the virus was worse than COVID-19. Assuring the widows that their status must never be seen as a curse but as a change in the sphere of life, he encouraged them to teach their children about the virus, laying emphasis that it is real and not a scam. “You all have to be very careful because of what we are going through as a nation. Covid-19 is real. It has killed people and nobody is using it to scam you. You have to tell your children that it is real and not just a story. “As mothers, don’t give up. Always know that you’re not alone and help will always come. Widowhood is not a curse. Anytime you’re passing through pain, always be encouraged as God never changes but remains God,” he said. Head of the risk communication department at the NCDC, Dr. Disu Yahaya, revealed that already, 525 deaths had been recorded as a result of the virus while as of Tuesday (24th June), the number of infected cases were bound to be nothing less than 21,000 as a result of non compliance to safety measures. Represented by Hannatu Bello, the director added that if the spread of the virus and infected cases were left unattended to, then the end of the spread will not be in sight. He said: “How do you stay safe from the virus? There’s need to know how it spreads. Let us make efforts to do the right thing. Get the correct information and do your bit to stay safe in your small corners to prevent the spread of infections. “Try to be self reliant and not to always depend on handouts that you’re given. You all must try to stand above the challenges that comes along with widowhood.” The widows who came from parts of the FCT and Nasarawa state left with bags of rice and cassava flakes (garri), and with determination to live above board and spread the safety measures of the corona virus at home and at their businesses.