Francis Sardauna in Katsina Katsina State Governor, Alhaji Aminu Masari yesterday blamed the spate of insecurity bedeviling the state on volunteers and informants supporting bandits and kidnappers terrorizing communities in the state. Masari lamented that volunteers and informants had made it cumbersome for security agencies to tackle the wave of banditry, kidnapping and other heinous crimes confronting communities in the state. He expressed this concern yesterday at a meeting with internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Faskari and Dandume Local Government Areas of the state, where he sympathised with the victims of banditry and armed attacks in the state. He visited IDPs camps in Faskari Model Primary School and Dandume Primary School alongside his deputy, Alhaji Mannir Yakubu, the Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Mustapha Inuwa and other top government officials and security chiefs. He said: “We don’t accept or approve Yan’sakai because in most cases, they are the ones that trigger mass killings. Yan’sakai will travel 20 or 30kms from their place to another place and kill a Fulani or anybody they suspect to be a bandit. “When the Fulani people and bandits in the forest come out, they attack a nearby community that was not involved in the killing of the person alleged to have been killed by them. “It has happened in Kadisau and many other places that we saw massive killings. We don’t approve the activities of Yan’sakai but the vigilantes working with the police will be properly trained to assist the police before the coming of community policing.” The governor renewed his pledge to do everything possible to tackle the wave of insecurity bedeviling the state to enable displaced persons to return to their ancestral homes. He said joint security operatives would go after the bandits and assiduously work to put an end to the indiscriminate killings and kidnapping of innocent citizens in the state. He lamented the recent dastardly attacks orchestrated by bandits which resulted in the losses of hundreds of lives and property worth millions of naira in frontline local government areas of the state. The governor described the incident as unfortunate and expressed the state government’s unequivocal determination to end the menace.