The Founder of the House on The Rock Cathedral, Pastor Paul Adefarasin and his lovely wife, Ifeanyi, celebrates 25 years of blissful matrimony, Ferdinand Ekechukwu reports Every now and then, one hears the saying, “Marriage is to be enjoyed not endured.” The Founder of the House on The Rock Cathedral, Pastor Paul Adefarasin and his lovely wife, Ifeanyi have proved this, still remaining deeply in love as when they first started. The shepherd couple last week marked another wonderful milestone in their marital life. On this auspicious occasion which was their 25 wedding anniversary, the head Pastor had nothing but beautiful words for his wife. According to the 57 year old pastor, he is grateful to God for a wife like Ifeanyi because she brought joy to his life. He also regaled his wife with lovely words about her beauty and character over the years. Paul described Ifeanyi as simply timeless and eloquent elegance in poetic motion, adding that he enjoys the many virtues of her soul. He posted photographs of his wife on his Instagram page and showered her with praises. According to the 57 year old pastor, he is grateful to God for a wife like Ifeanyi because she brought joy to his life. He also regaled his wife with lovely words about her beauty and character over the years. Paul described Ifeanyi as simply timeless and eloquent elegance in poetic motion, adding that he enjoys the many virtues of her soul. He posted photographs of his wife on his Instagram page and showered her with praises. Paul thanked her for bringing joy and laughter into his life and also thanked God for bringing her into his life. He described Ifeanyi as the perfect wife type for their sons and a perfect role model for their daughter. He wrote: “Dear Ifeanyi, I woke up this morning with joy in my spirit, peace in plenty and a new song in my heart with the melody of heaven in my mouth, because even in the midst of all that is in today’s world, I still have so much to be grateful for – most particularly you; Adeife my precious wife. “From the moment we met, you have brought to my life enduring love, brilliant light, loving laughter and have given me volumes to be thankful to our King for. I am thankful for the path we have trodden as one, the road that we have traveled together and the wars we have won in the trenches of life, because they have worked in accord together to bring us to the beauty and bliss of today; My ‘Ye ‘ye, Ijebu Princess, and Asaba Queen, you are simply timeless and eloquent elegance in poetic motion. ”I enjoy the many virtues of your soul. Your beauty and grace are continually effortless; your kind heart and warmth touch everything that you do. You are the pristine example for our daughter to emulate; the perfect wife type for our sons (who could never wish for a better mother) and a most amazing blessing to our teaming societies. My heart trusts your soul and you have done me so much good in the quarter century of our lives shared together. “Only eternity could tell it all. 25 years is a long time! But it feels like it’s only been 25 days …. May love live eternally. With love to my darling wife. Happy 25th Wedding Anniversary With Love Adeolu. xxx xx 25 #celebration #anniversary #ifeanyiadefarasin.” On her part, Ifeanyi took to her Instagram page to share a picture of them together and dapper images of her unique man as she extolled his virtues. She wrote: “Time passes by speedily when you’re living your best life with the man of your dreams! I had no idea the heights that you would take me to nor the depths and wonders that you would show me in life; all I knew was that you were a very special man – a unique man, a true man of God; and I was being given the privilege and honour of journeying life alongside you. 25 years later, having lived life under your cover, guidance, love, and assurance; if I had to choose again, I would choose you Adeolu. “I love you simply because you are an absolutely amazing person who cares deeply and loves easily. You make it so easy to love you. I respect you for the loving husband and caring father you are. I cherish you for your large heart that reflects Christ in so many ways. It makes you very admirable and attractive. I am so blessed and inspired by you. I thank you for being the man you said you would be. “Today, I stay focused on and grounded in the One who has blessed, kept, and given us 25 wonderful years and the promise of a great God-ordained future. With all my love now and forever, I wish you a happy wedding anniversary, my best friend, my husband, my pastor, my forever heartbeat and my love – @PaulAdefarasin #25 #anniversary #family #celebration.” Paul and Ifeanyi met and got married in 1995. The couples are blessed with three children; two sons and a daughter. Paul once revealed what every man ought to do if he desires to be showered with love and attention from his wife. According to the man of God, having the ability to stimulate your woman is enough to make her love you more and give everything about herself to you. ”Despite what many say, what a woman loves most about a man is his ability to stimulate her mind. When you can stimulate her mind, she will willingly give you the rest of who she is. “Learn how to appreciate and enjoy the intangible things about a person and enjoy the physical later when you are married. Your purpose in life is to glorify and magnify God. How we should love one another is to display God’s glory to others so that they fall in love with God for themselves. The beautiful thing is that when you delight yourself in the Lord, He will give you what to desire. When you pursue God, you are most likely to bump into what and who God has in store for you.” Ifeanyi stirred the hornet’s nest in recent past with her comments on ladies who dress indecently. She spoke against the way some ladies dress to church and the gimmicks they resort to in their search for husbands. “Walking up and down cannot get you a husband; if you dress somehow and there’s a guy here you can tempt, the guy will have a fling with you as the toy that you are and fling you when he’s done. No man wants somebody that by the time he’s walking, he’s trying to figure out if this is how she is advertising, how many of us are logging into her website.”