Emma Okonji and Nosa Alekhuogie Ahead of the 2020 governorship election in Edo State, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Osita Okechukwu has called on the party’s National Chairman, Mr. Adams Oshiomhole to guide his utterances in order not to mar the forthcoming gubernatorial election in the state. Okechukwu who is the Director General of Voice of Nigeria (VON) also called for the easing out of Oshiomhole from the political party. Okechukwu made this known yesterday, when he appeared as a guest on the Morning Show of ARISE NEWS Channel, a sister broadcast arm of THISDAY Newspapers. He noted that he had nothing against the party’s chairman, but however said the political party has a better role to play and should not be misled by the utterances of its national chairman. “We are not accusing him that he is responsible for the crises rocking the APC party in Edo State, but when you want to lead a party like the APC, you should be open- hearted; more consulting and less dictatorial. If that was the case, we would not have the crises we have on our hands in the state. “I do not know of any state in the federation where he has driven in to call all the contending forces to ask what the matter is. That is the supposed role of a party chairman. I have not seen him making efforts to utilise all the organs of the party to meet. A chairman that is rational and not narcissist could have been begging the leadership of the party to meet but this is not the case.” “Even after the primaries, he rarely calls for meetings; he should be blamed because when he came on board, a lot of us supported him; we thought he was going to mobilise the party to be positive, we didn’t know he would run a sole administratorship. “We are not going to benefit anything by leaving him there. Look at the Lagos primaries; he nearly sabotaged Asiwaju, one of those who were his main pillars. He is turning out to be a bully in the China shop and we should find a way to ease him out,” Okechukwu said. According to him, “If you are the chairman of a leading political party, with a president like Muhammadu Buhari, your efforts should be geared towards getting the membership to understand the policies of the government, if you are not doing so and you are only interested in creating one crises or the other from one state to the other, that isn’t a good chairman. I do not have anything against Adams Oshiomhole as a person but he is chasing ‘rats’. Partisan politics shouldn’t be on the threshold of a political party leadership. One of the assignments of the leaders is to help the government to drive his policies and let the people buy into the policies of the president.”