By Hammed Shittu Former Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, has mourned the sudden death of Hon. Olanrewaju Abdulmajeed Oba, who died Sunday morning after a brief illness. Larry, as he was fondly called, was the PDP candidate for the Kwara State House of Assembly election for Ilorin North West State Constituency in the 2019 general elections but lost to the APC candidate during the poll. Saraki in a condolence message issued in Ilorin on Sunday ,signed by his Press Officer on Local Matters, Mr. Abdulqadir Abdulganiyu, said he received the news of Oba’s death with a great deal of sadness and commiserated with his family. According to him, “Larry was a man of exceptional character who stood out as an ambassador for the younger generation and embodied the argument for greater inclusion of young people in governance and leadership.” He said the late Larry would be greatly be missed. Saraki also prayed Allah to forgive the sins of the deceased and grant him Aljannah Firdaus. He also asked Allah to strengthen his family and loved ones at this very difficult time. Also, the State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has expressed shock and sadness over the death of Hon. Olanrewaju Abdulmajeed Oba. A statement issued in Ilorin on Sunday by its State Publicity Secretary, Hon. Tunde Ashaolu, described his death as devastating and unfortunate, saying that it was a huge loss to his family, loved ones, the party and the people of Ilorin West. The statement reads in part: “Olanrewaju Oba’s sudden death is devastating and very unfortunate. We are shocked and sad by the news of his demise. It is a huge loss to his family, friends, associates, the Kwara PDP family and the entire people of Ilorin West. “The late Larry was a responsible, focused and generous person who was loved by all and sundry. He was also a loyal and dedicated party man. “We commiserate with his immediate family and all those who mourn his demise. We pray to God to overlook his shortcomings and grant him aljanah Firdaus. May Allah grant the bereaved family, the strength to bear this unfortunate loss.”