LG Electronics has stated that its products have enabled its customers to connect and entertain themselves while spending quality time at home during the lockdown. The South Korean company noted that its 21st-century products from water purifiers to air conditioners, washing machines, refrigerators, and TVs offer adaptable, efficient, and innovative ways work-life balance has been attained today. According to a statement, working from home, research has found, can boost employee productivity, improve work/life balance and foster better mental health (not to mention reduce pollution from commuters). Achieving a work-life balance has become a major discourse in the last few years and of course with today’s technological advancement – it’s a welcome development. It noted that increasing adoption of smart devices, technology proliferation, development of the semiconductor industry, and increasing penetration of internet of things (IoT) are centrifugal factors indicating the growth of the consumer electronic market. Technology will continue to enrich our lives. “In the last two decades, LG has taken a lead in the adoption of Artificial Intelligence, 8K technology; dived into gaming innovation, Nano Cell, OLED, projector, and introduced some of the best TVs with high-quality resolution. It’s range of TVs has covered all the new innovations in OLED TVs, NanoCell TVs, ULTRA HD 4K TVs, Smart TVs, and LED TVs,” the statement added. According to the Head Corporate Marketing Division at LG Electronics West Africa, Mr. Hari Elluru, the company is committed to sustainable products through the adoption of Artificial Intelligence. “Spending some time with family or working from home can be fun with LG’s smart home appliances powered by AI,” he added. “One of our devices that can definitely make family time or work from home fun is the LG AI TVs. They are the first with the Google Assistant and Alexa technology. LG Styler is especially useful for its ability to eliminate germs from clothes and even toys, which are often the breeding ground for germs. In addition to keeping you looking your very best, Styler’sTrueSteam technology eliminates over 99.9 percent of germs and bacteria found on clothing,” he added. He disclosed that with the well-being of employees and customers foremost in mind, we are working around the clock with our partners to minimize any disruptions across the supply chain. We encourage all of our customers to purchase products online. You can get information on delivery methods from retailer sites when you visit for product purchases. “LG has a wide range of air solutions that fit every modern home, from advanced air purifiers that clean the air and eliminate allergens to energy-saving washing machines that thoroughly clean your clothes without damaging even the most delicate fabrics”, he explained.