By James Sowole The Ondo State Governor, Mr Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, and his predecessor, Dr Olusegun Mimiko, Thursday commiserated with the people and Government of Ekiti State on the demise of a former governor of old Ondo State, Bamidele Olumilua. Akeredolu, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Segun Ajibiye, described the late Olumilua as a consummate politician who achieved remarkable and indelible feats as the governor of the old Ondo State from January 1992 to November 1993. The governor described Olumilua as a great mind who injected a lot of thinking into governance while conducting the affairs of the old Ondo State from which Ekiti State was created. Akeredolu said the demise of the illustrious son of Ekiti at 80 amounted to the further depletion of the generation of politicians who believe that politics and governance are about service to the people. Mimiko, in a statement he personally signed, described Olumilua as a consummate politician, humanist, man of faith and a lover of the masses. The former governor, who served under Olumilua as Commissioner for Health, said he was a true leader. “Ours was a relationship that was never broken by partisanship, time and/or location. He remained true to his leadership roles to me till the end and I valued him like a true political beneficiary. “My words to the children and wives were words of consolation, of encouragement and of solidarity. “Though of age, the death of a dear one must be deeply sorrowful, when the departed is as wonderful, humane, astute and profound in thoughts and wisdom, the pain becomes much more riveting. “His wives and children who lived and shared most moments of his earthly sojourn therefore deserve our words of consolation as the facts of his departure and the weight of the demise sink in. “I encourage his children and wives to take stock and prepare to carry on with confidence and on the deeply remarkable legacies of their patriarch. “I solidarise with them as men and women of faith, that the loss was a gain to heaven, to God. Because as the saying goes, those whom God loves, he calls to himself. “While time is not yet ripe to write of his indelible contribution to my political history, my family and I wish to extend our condolences to his immediate and extended family members, political and religious associates, the people and government of Ekiti State and all lovers of social democratic governance, a cause to which the late Olumilua devoted most part of his adult life,” Mimiko said.