Ikeja Electric Plc (IE), has metered over 120 households between 2018 and June 2020. This is in line with its commitment to bridge its metering gap. Head of Corporate Communications, Ikeja Electric, Mr. Felix Ofulue disclosed in a statement that in order to achieve the mandate of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to bridge the metering gap and reduce the incidence of estimated bills, the company has doubled its efforts to realise its objective of metering all its customers in the shortest possible time. “The company plans to meter another 400,000 customers over the next two years. Apart from eradicating estimated billing, Ikeja Electric’s metering programme has also provided jobs, directly and indirectly, for thousands of Lagos residents and Nigerians in general, particularly during the lockdown” he said. According to him, metering of its customers under the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme is ongoing, despite logistical challenges emanating from the pandemic. He added that the company has also metered Maximum Demand (MD) customers in the network and conducts periodic recertifications of the meters in line with Regulatory procedures. “In addition to consumer metering, Ikeja Electric has also metered all the 33kv /11kv feeders from the injection stations ensuring energy accountability across its delivery points. In addition, the local distribution transformers have also been metered up to 100 per cent, while the metering of newly installed transformers after completion of the project is ongoing” he explained Ofulue urged customers who are yet to apply for meters, to take advantage of the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme and apply through the IE portal. He noted that Ikeja Electric has set up a debt resolution panel in the six Business Units to address complaints on outstanding bills and other related issues to ensure reconciliation while customers are processing the application for meter. With regards to payment for meters, he stressed that “customers must always pay into the designated bank account provided by the MAP and they must always include their Application Reference Number (ARN) when making these payments”. In the same vein, he also explained that with the upward review of meter prices by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), the new price for Single Phase Meter is now N48,263.37, while Three-phase Meter is now N89,069.33. All prices are inclusive of VAT and became effective from June 1, 2020.