Emmanuel Ugwu in Umuahia The appointment of Professor Godswill Obioma as the new Registrar/Chief Executive Officer of the National Examinations Council (NECO) has continued to attract applauds from stakeholders and lovers of education. Abia State Governor, Okezie Okpeazu said he received the news of Obioma’s appointment “with delight” and commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the right choice of putting a patriotic and diligent person in charge of NECO.
The Abia-born Professor of Mathematics Education and Evaluation was last week named as the new CEO to pilot the affairs of NECO for the next five years at first instance. In a message of congratulations/goodwill signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Onyebuchi Ememanka, the governor described Obioma as “a pride to Abia State and an outstanding scholar of repute who has stamped his scholarly authority in the educational sector of our country.”
Ikpeazu, who is an academic, recalled the achievements of Obioma, noting that he became a professor of Mathematics Education and Evaluation at the age of 36 in 1991. According to him, Obioma has for almost three decades been “a beacon of light in public service” holding top positions including Special Assistant, Policy Monitoring and Evaluation to the Military Governor of Abia State in 1994; acting Chief Executive Officer of the National Mathematical Centre in 1997. He was also Special Assistant, Programmes and Policy to the Minister of Education in 2003; Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council in 2005 and until his new appointment, the Resident Electoral Commissioner in Ebonyi State.
Ikpeazu expressed confidence that Obioma would discharge the duties of his new office “with his characteristic diligence and a high sense of patriotism.” He said the new NECO boss would bring his long years of experience in educational administration and planning to bear on the nation’s premier school certificate examination body.
The governor, on behalf of the government and people of Abia, wished Obioma a successful tenure at NECO.