Eight student of The Regent School, Abuja have emerged with the best results across 13 subjects in the June 2019 Cambridge IGCSE Examinations in Nigeria and the world, the school principal, Mr. Andrew D. Williams has announced. In a statement, Williams said the eight students had been celebrated by the British Council and Cambridge Assessment International Examinations (CAIE) for obtaining the best results in Nigeria and the world. He quoted the Board of The Regent School as saying that “The Regent School received the information from the British Council and Cambridge International that eight of her students emerged with the best results across 13 subjects in the June 2019 Cambridge IGCSE Examinations in Nigeria and the world.” According to him, the awards of exceptional performance at a national and international level were granted to seven students. He said: “These awards included highest in the world in Mathematics, achieved by two students. “The students who obtained the best results in the June 2019 IGCSE Examinations were Abubakar Sadiq Tafida, Aditi Amol Sohoni, Chisom Angela Angel Akahara, Ibrahim Abdulsalam, Phinola Yeani Aruna, Shreya Jindal and Sybel Nyenimana Shreya, Phinola, Ibrahim, Sybel, Chisom, Abubakar and Aditi were adjudged to have obtained the best results across Nigeria in 11 subjects. Shreya Jindal emerged in Accounting, Additional Mathematics, Biology, Physics; Phinola Yeani Aruna in Art & Design; Ibrahim Abdulsalam in Environmental Management; Sybel Nyenimana in Foreign Language French. Also, Chisom Angela Angel Akahara led in Global Perspectives;
Abubakar Sadiq Tafida in Music; Aditi Amol Sohoni in Information and Communication Technology and Shreya Jindal & Aditi Amol Sohoni in Mathematics. Shreya Jindal had an overwhelmingly outstanding result as she was the best across eight subjects – first place while both Shreya Jindal and Aditi Amol Sohoni achieved the highest results globally in mathematics. Last year, six students of the school achieved the best Cambridge IGCSE results in Nigeria in 7 subjects in the IGCSE examinations of June 2018. The school board expressed delight at the students’ exceptional performance and pledged not to relent in its efforts at providing academic excellence for their students. Ugwuanyi Pardons 25 Prisoners The Enugu State Government has pardoned 25 inmates in Enugu, Nsukka and Oji River Correctional Centres following the approval of the state governor, Mr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. This was revealed in a statement the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prof. Simon Ortuanya issued yesterday. The statement disclosed that the pardon was sequel to the recommendation of the Advisory Council on Prerogative of Mercy, and in exercise of the powers conferred on the governor by “Section 212 (I) (a-d) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended”. According to the statement, 19 affected inmates were from Enugu Correctional Centre, five from Nsukka and one from Oji-River. The state gave the names of the inmates as Egwu Chukwuebuka, Anthony Ejiogu, Chibuzo Ugwu, Ikechukwu Elom, Ejike Anigbo, Ozioma Onuegbu, Chukwu Francis, Ifebuche Nwafor, Nnaji Uchenna, Sunday Michael, Kingsley Onyebuchi, Ikechukwu Ogbu, Chinonso Obinna, Godwin Nwafor, Onuh Emmanuel, Oluchukwu Nwobodo, Ebuka Ozoemena, Nwaokoro Ikechukwu and Bitrus Destiny, for Enugu Correctional Centre. Others are Ejike Solomon Eke, Odo Sunday, Ede Ekene, Itodo Chiegonu and Ifeanyi Azegbe, for Nsukka Correctional Centre, and Obi Simon, for Oji River Correctional Centre.