Love or hate him, Jimoh Ibrahim is a phenomenon. His business strategies may not appeal to you, but what is incontestable is that he is blessed with uncommon business acumen. Today, by virtue of his rare accomplishments, he is one of the few Nigerian businessmen who can rub shoulders with other top businessmen around the globe. His quest for knowledge is not only impressive but inspiring. Interestingly, as he seeks knowledge, he also loves to share it. In fact, some of his workers are said to have benefited from his wealth of knowledge. In line with his passion for quality education, the serial entrepreneur has joined the league of private university owners with the establishment of Fortune University in his home town, Igbotako in Ondo State.
The foundation laying was done in March, 2020 by the state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN. The establishment of the university, it was gathered, was borne out of the genuine concern and the desire for a critical intervention towards having quality university education in the country. The institution, it was also gathered, “aims to offer the finest university education, with its unique offerings and innovative delivery methodologies, coupled with great infrastructure designed to make learning conducive. “The institution is envisioned by the business mogul, having himself been driven by a strong thirst for wide varieties of knowledge at the world’s finest institutions such as Harvard, Oxford and Cambridge universities, among others.” The billionaire is currently a Ph.D. student in Management Science at the Cambridge. He is also studying for a Ph.D. in War Studies at the University of Buckingham. Indeed, if the history of billionaires in Africa were to be documented, his name would stand out. He is a rare gem, who set out to achieve greatness in life. Evidence of this, no doubt, manifests in all his business interests, which include oil & gas distribution, hotels, resorts, aviation, banking, real estate, insurance, publishing and investments, among others.