Submit . In partnership with UNESCO, The UN World Oceans Day and the U.S Consulate General; Lagos, STEMi Makers Africa commemorated World Oceans Day on Monday the 8th of June 2020. This virtual Summit was themed: The Science We Need For The Ocean We Want. It was a virtual summit with over 985 participants who signed up to engage Global Scientists and Thought Leaders to discuss this extremely important issue at such a critical time in history. This Summit was to celebrate the role of the Oceans in our everyday life, inspire actions to protect the ocean and sustainable use of marine Resources. The Summit also addressed issues on Oil Spillage, Environmental Pollution, Marine habitat conservation, hazard exploitation of our natural resources and designing Innovative strategies for a sustainable Ocean. The event hosted Kolisa Yola Sinyanya, PhD, a South African Oceanographer from the University of Cape Town; South Africa, Dr. Demilade Fayemiwo, PhD, a Scientist and L’Oreal – UNESCO Women in Science recipient, Russell Brooks, the Public Affairs Officer of the U.S Consulate and Amanda Obidike, the Strategy Lead for STEMi Makers Africa who moderated the Summit. The Public Affairs Officer of the U.S Consulate General in Lagos spoke a great deal on plastic pollution and how we can begin to reverse these threats to our coasts, oceans and marine life. He also shared how the U.S Government can assist countries on oil spillage threatening our marine ecosystem. Oceanographer, Kolisa Yola introduced the audience to numerous Opportunities, grants and Fellowship programs that young people can explore in Ocean Sciences alongside with the impactful role of Phytoplankton in our lives.
Dr. Demilade talked about Science not being enough to save the Oceans and we have a collective responsibility to contribute to a low waste approach and scale up sustainable production of biodegradable versions of products like plastic and plastic bags. Amanda Obidike, the Strategy Lead for STEMi Makers Africa shared that STEMi Makers Africa is committed to raising global awareness of the benefits humankind derives from the Ocean and our Individual and collective duty to use its Resources sustainably as future generations will also depend on the Ocean for their livelihood. The event had a record of participants from 16 African countries and 6 International Communities who connected to this Live event.