Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje thursday ordered for house-to-house sample collections from suspected COVID-19 patients, particularly within the eight metropolitan Local Government Areas (LGAs). The governor’s pronoun-cement followed a data from the state Task Force on COVID-19, which confirmed that the virus is fast spreading within the eight metropolitan LGAs in the state. The data confirmed that Taurani LGA has recorded the highest number of patients. Speaking during the press briefing organised by the State Task Force on COVID-19 held at Government House, Ganduje said, “we are putting our emphasis within the eight metropolitan Local Government Areas. “We are engaging in house-to-house sample collection. I think during the political campaign, some politicians engaged in house-to-house campaign. “Right now for COVID-19, we are engaging in house-to-house sample collection campaign.” “There is no doubt we are always improving in our successes in the fight against COVID-19. This is as a result of the commitment of the task force and commitment of the frontline health workers. “By now, we have known the easiest way to contract this disease and the easiest way to avoid it. We know the three commandments of COVID-19, which are social distancing, washing and sanitising our hands and wearing our face mask. “These three commandments should become our way of life. They should become part of our everyday life. “Relaxation of lockdown is now from 6 a.m to 6 p.m on Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays. We also decided to open our markets in order to improve business activities in the state. “We are producing face masks in large quantities and the market leaders have promised to produce face masks and distribute them free of charge. They will also provide water and soap for visitors and customers. “We have also decided to fumigate all the markets to ensure that they are devoid of diseases. The ratio of collection of samples has increased and we are determined to continue from this line.” Speaking also, the chairman of the state Task Force on COVID-19 who doubles as the Deputy Governor, Dr. Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, said since the inauguration of the Task Force on COVID-19, “our objective was and still remains to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the state with the cooperation of all stakeholders.”