By Adedayo Akinwale A member representing Chibok/Damboa/Gwoza federal constuency in the House of Representatives, Hon. Ahmed Jaha, has apologised for saying indecent dressing by some women attracts rape.
At the plenary on Thursday, a matter of urgent public importance was raised on the alarming rate of rape cases in the country. Jaha, while contributing to the debate, said persons who commit acts of rape should be sentenced to death and also suggested that state governments should domesticate relevant laws such as Violence Against Persons and Prohibition ACT(VAPP) and other relevant laws against gender based violence in the country. The lawmaker however added that women should cultivate the habit of proper and descent dressing to avoid unnecessary harassment from men who may not control themselves. But addressing a press conference at the weekend, Jaha, admitted that he had made a mistake that has offended the sensibilities of fellow Nigerians and indeed, particularly women. He stated: “The fact is that a woman’s choice of dressing cannot justify rape and here is another practical example I have seen myself. “While I totally reaffirm my position that rapists should face death sentences, I regret the part that talks about the dressing of women. l deeply apologise for this position because as some have rightly argued, my added comment, could imply that women who are victims, share the blame of being raped. This clearly, could not have been the intention of someone who suggested death penalty for rapists. “As a man that has been happily married for more than 16 years and blessed with five children, including a daughter, I know that it is a divine responsibility for every good man to protect and preserve the pride of a woman. This is because women have less strength which accounts for the irresponsible ways they are raped by evil men.” Jaha also apologised to his colleagues in the House, who might have been disappointed by his comment, especially female lawmakers and his entire constituents. “I say to you, that I am deeply sorry. I apologise to all women folks and to all responsible men that should be pained when women are touched, I apologise to all of you,” the lawmaker added.