By Udora Orizu The Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Defence, Hon. Babajimi Benson, has commiserated with the people of Foduma Kolomaiya community in Gubio Local Government of Borno State and residents of Faskari Local Government of Katsina State over the killing of 81 and 40 people by the Boko Haram insurgents and bandits respectively. Benson in a press statement issued on Thursday said the situation in Borno and Katsina States, and indeed other states affected by insurgency, banditry and kidnapping calls for decisive action. The Chairman also sent similar message to the governments and the entire people of the two states, saying the death of any individual in Nigeria, especially from insecurity, should be a source of concern to all. Benson, who represents Ikorodu Federal Constituency of Lagos State, said more military action was needed in the affected states for the insurgents and bandits to be dealt with decisively. He also said the death toll in both Borno and Katsina States in just one day was almost one-third of the total deaths recorded from COVID-19 pandemic so far. According to him, ‘The way the insurgents and the bandits have been striking in recent times, more decisive steps need to be taken by the armed forces. It is disheartening that at a time the military was making gains in the fight against the insurgents and bandits, the criminals could strike in these communities and kill that large number of people.’ ”We cannot fold our hands, while fellow citizens are killed in a most gruesome manner by blood suckers, whose only interest is to continue killing and inflict untold pains on Nigerians. While commending our officers and men, who through their sacrifice and bravery are working to reduce the level of insecurity in the affected states, I will like to encourage them to up their game at this time. ”The wanton killing of innocent Nigerians by these criminals is very disturbing and unacceptable. Something must be done about it now, or we all live to continue to have pains over the killings of our loved ones. My heart goes to the people of Foduma Kolomaiya and Faskari at this trying times. By the grace of God, we won’t fail you.”