By Kemi Olaitan Former Presidential candidate of the National Action Council (NAC), Dr. Olapade Agoro, yesterday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to resign as the country is sliding into danger zone of anarchy under his administration. Agoro while speaking with journalists at the Oyo State National Union of Journalists (NUJ) Press Centre, Iyaganku, Ibadan, stressed that the body language of President Buhari is posing threat to the national security and the national unity. He said, “The awry, terrifying and ugly developing political situations all over the nationhood of Nigeria are clear signals of dangers ahead,” adding, “the saddening part of the whole issue will be found in the evidencing fact of leadership absence.” The former national chairman of NAC, who expressed displeasure on the recent attack on the personality of the wife of the president, Aisha as worrisome and disturbing, insisted that the First Lady deserved respect and honour from all Nigerians irrespective of their position. According to him, “The only wife that was sworn-in with the president, Aisha Buhari was almost killed and nothing happens. Why will Mr. President equate his wife with a relation of his? Buhari opens his eyes and allowed his wife to be rubbished. There was a gun shot at the Villa which tells us that somebody was after the life of Mr. President. It should be a thing of concern to us. “After that subsided, bandits unleashed terror on the state of Mr. President to the extent that he cannot visit his home town. Buhari is not alive to his responsibilities. This is not good for Nigeria at this time. It should also be a thing of concern to Nigerians that Mr. President allows the political party that brought him to office to be collapsing. The party is now in disarray. “So, if the Mr. President cannot control his house, how do we expect him to control the whole country? On that of the Ondo political saga, I hate politics without decorum. If President cannot put his house in order, then he should resign.” Agoro then urged Nigerians to be mindful of the sacrifice made by those that fought for democracy such as the late Chief MKO Abiola, Pa Adekunle Ajasin and Senator Abraham Adesanya, among other leaders.