Emma Okonji Smile has announced some significant changes to its data plans as a measure to cushion the negative effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on its customers and the nation’s economy. On offer, is a range of data plans with tenor that range from Daily, Weekly, Monthly and even Yearly. The Daily and weekly offers boast of varying validity periods of 1day, 2days and 7days. The price tag, in this category, ranges from N300 to N1,500 while the GB is between 1GB and 6GB. For the monthly offer the validity period is 30 days and is usable anytime of the day. The price range is from N1,000 to N18,000 and the GB offer is between 1.5GB and 100GB. The validity period for the BumpaValue offer is in three parts; 60days, 90 days and 120 days with GB offers of 50GB, 80GB and 100GB. The crowning glory is the 1 year package with price range of N8,000, N16,000, N36,000, N70,000 and N120,000 and GB offer of 15GB, 35GB, 90GB, 200GB and 400GB. Smile’s resolve to revamp its data plans, according to its chief marketing officer, Abdul Hafeez, is to lessen the burden on families whose wards have been taking online classes at home and businesses whose workers have been working remotely by availing them the most competitive data offers in the market. “We are revamping all our data plans making them the BestValue, and usable anytime of the day,” Hafeez said.
A cross section of customers on the Smile network has already commended the company for introducing more value, anytime use and greater affordability through the revamped data plans. To Oluseyi Balogun, a Smile customer based in Anifowose Area of Ikeja, the revamped data plans will help cushion the biting effect of the inclement economic times. He gave kudos to Smile for always looking out for the best interest of its customers. Ngozi Madukor, an undergraduate in one of the higher institutions in Lagos opined that the revamped data plans is pocket friendly and exactly what is needed by the teeming Nigerian youths whose disposable income is daily being depleted by contending needs. Hafeez, while noting that the range of the revamped data plans on offer are unsurpassed in the value, further explained that the revamped data plans are very robust, wide ranging and versatile. Each of the offerings is tailor-made for both the individual and corporate users. He urged forward-looking customers and prospects alike to embrace any of their preferred offerings and savour the benefits inherent in any of the revamped data plans. Market watchers are unanimous in their view that Smile is continuously innovating to beat existing market benchmark all in a bid to provide products that will serve their customer’s best interest in the present turbulent market landscape. They urged the company to continue to innovate so as to always meet the demands of their customers and consumers.