By Sunday Ehigiator Popular broadcaster, Ifedayo Olarinde aka Daddy Freeze, has come under intense criticism online for promoting alleged internet fraudster, Ramon Abass, also known as Hushpuppi. Nigerians called out the broadcaster, known for his incessant attacks on pastors, on Twitter Tuesday, following a last year mini-documentary he did on Hushpuppi, promoting the alleged fraudster. In the documentary, Hushpuppi was heard saying his driver collects more money in a month than a local government chairman in Nigeria. He said his driver and cleaner earn N700,000 and N250,000 respectively every month, with Daddy Freeze giggling happily and also telling Nigerian youth to beg the alleged fraudster to employ their fathers Also in the documentary which began trending in the wake of Hushpuppi’s recent arrest, Daddy Freeze mocked Nigerian youths, who accuse Hushpuppi of fraud. In the hour long video, Daddy Freeze described in glowing words Hushpuppi’s questionable lifestyle. Hushpuppi gave the broadcaster a tour of his garage, his resplendent Dubai home, and an expensive wardrobe. As the tour went on, Daddy Freeze was heard saying, “Hushpuppi’s driver earns N700,000 a month while you that abuse him on social media are doing houseboy work and earn N35,000 a month. Instead of you to beg Hushpuppi to hire your father as a driver.” Less than a year after the video was published, however, the police in Dubai arrested Hushpuppi and his gang for allegedly defrauding over 1.9 million people of over N160bn. Following Hushpuppi’s arrest, hundreds of Nigerians lambasted Daddy Freeze for promoting fraud while criticising pastors. @owuhkingsley said, “Where are you now @DaddyFRZ? Laughing and insulting hard working people not begging Hushpuppy for job. “Where are the driver and cleaner now?
This is how cheap and low you have become because of worldly wealth. FBI will soon come for you, because you ate from 1.9 victims sweat.” @olufemiolubodun said, “I do not know what is more hypocritical than drag pastors for collecting offerings and then dine with internet fraudster.” @Omobolade Yusuf said, “Dear @FBI, help us check if @DaddyFRZ was a partner to Hushpuppi, they use to dine together.” @rockloden said, “Eating fried rice and chicken with expensive wine on people’s hard earned money. Abusing people that are hustling legitimately. Well, it’s game over for you and your crew at the end.” @shovicdoyle said, “Daddy Freeze licking Hushpuppi butts, At least, the person earning N35,000 will not go to jail for doing house boy work. There is nothing that has beginning without end.” @jamesfadj said, “Daddy Freeze is a deep freezer. He has gone deep in corruption and fraud.” @odowu_olowe said, “Look at him frolicking with a fraudster and he is the loudest voice to criticize pastors. Glutton.” @taiwodelami said, “@DaddyFRZ has a case to answer. Pure Image laundering. He can’t prove otherwise that he didn’t benefit from the proceed of crimes. He can attack men of God and still have the effrontery to be lip singing criminals.” @IamDaVINC1 said, “If it’s to drag his fellow ministers now, you will see tears of Joy in his eyes plus gasping for breath out of excitement. Imagine broke shaming legit hustle and people’s father for fraud. Daddy Freeze is a Hypocrite.” @callmiifexco said, “By now Freeze should have been arrested. He has never in a day mention a word concerning this Hushpuppi case. Imagine if it was Pastor Adeboye’s Son matter or gist. He would have put it on his head like gala. Freeze should be ashame of himself now. I am even ashame for him.”