One of Africa’s first fully integrated telehealth start-up, Mobilhealth International, has been announced as winner of the ‘How to help healthcare systems leapfrog from manual to smart logistics solutions at point of care’ Category of the 2020 Sanofi AfricaTech Healthcare Challenge. A statement signed by the company said the announcement was made at an online ceremony in France, recently. The Chief Executive Officer, Mobilhealth International, Dr. Funmi Adewara, expressed delight about the development, saying it was an honour to be recognised as a solution provider committed to attainment of Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in line with the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals three (SDG-3). She said the award was dedicated to Nigeria and to every African who desires quality healthcare. According to her, “Africa has a disproportionate disease burden compared to its population. This results from the poor access to healthcare occasioned by shortage of doctors, poor healthcare infrastructure, exposure to counterfeit medicines and high cost of treatment and all these in a continent where ninety-five per cent of the people lack health insurance. “Our intervention of integrated telehealth in the health sector is to bring about an increased access to quality and affordable healthcare to Africans who are in need of it and technology is making that possible in a scalable and secure way.” Adewara, explained that the partnership with Sanofi, would help to drive adoption and provide the company the support needed to scale up its solutions especially to resource poor settings. The CEO lauded the organisers and judges for finding the company worthy of the award. Continuing, she added: “Mobihealth International’s intervention is tailored to meet the global healthcare needs and address multiple pain points of shortage of doctors, brain drain, poor/lack of healthcare infrastructures, limited access to private/public health insurance, capital flight from medical tourism, exposure to counterfeit medicines, unqualified personnel and high cost of treatments.”