By Davidson Iriekpen Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State last night berated the police for allegedly harassing the Ondo State Deputy Governor, Mr. Agboola Ajayi. Wike in a statement signed by his Commissioner for Information and Communications, Mr. Paulinus Nsirim, said it was wrong for the Commissioner of Police, Ondo State, Mr. Salami Bolaji, to dabble into politics by denying Ajayi access to his residence because of his defection to another political party. He described the act as unfortunate and condemnable in a democratically-elected government. He said: “The Nigeria Governors’ Forum should rise to the occasion and demand that those behind actions that border on the infringement of constitutional rights be brought to book. “I will continue to say the truth; it does not matter which political party is erring. Look at the police reducing themselves to a level where politicians will now send them to infringe on the right of a deputy governor without regards to the fact that he has immunity. “They removed a Commissioner of Police in Rivers State because of the Caverton Helicopters saga which had to do with persons whose COVID-19 status was not known during the lockdown in the state. So, what should happen to commissioner of police who stopped a democratically-elected deputy governor from entering his house simply because of the rumour that he wanted to defect to another political party. “If that Commissioner of Police was in Rivers State, he would have been removed. This is part of the reasons people say I criticise the governors forum. It is not created for any political party; it should speak against constitutional infractions. “A deputy governor linked to the purported rumour of defection has the right of freedom of association. What is the business of a commissioner of police? “Nobody knows where we are headed in this country. It is unfortunate that we have different laws and rules for different people,” he said. The governor wondered why Mr. Femi Falana was not quick to condemn the role played by the police in breaching the provisions of the Nigerian constitution in Ondo State, the same way he condemned actions taken by the Rivers State Government to save the lives of Rivers people from COVID-19 pandemic. He said: “Human rights activists and people like Femi Falana are silent. “Today, I call on Femi Falana to speak out about the violation of the fundamental human rights of the deputy governor of Ondo State.