Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has facilitated the release of N1.25 billion to Benue State Government, Aso Savings and Loans Plc and International Energy Insurance Company Limited. The commission had launched an investigation following the receipt of petitions alleging that huge funds were fraudulently diverted from their original purpose. The sum of N1.25 billion was later recovered by the EFCC following detailed investigations and tracing of the funds from different bank accounts. The commission subsequently released the diverted funds to Benue State Government, Aso Savings and Loans and the International Energy Insurance, sequel to their letter of request. THISDAY gathered that the commission recovered N275.47million from members of the Benue State House of Assembly during the first term of incumbent Governor Samuel Ortom and later approved the release of the money to the Benue State Government, sequel to its letter of request dated October 17, 2019 with Ref No: MOF/S/GEN/310/Vol.1/165/203. In the case of Aso Savings and Loans Plc, the EFCC recovered a total sum of N700 million and has so far released N400million to the insurance firm, following its letter of request dated July 31, 2019 with Ref No Aso Legal/2019/400. It was further gathered that the remaining balance of N300million was being processed by the commission and would soon be released to Aso Savings. On the recovery made on behalf of International Energy Insurance, a total sum of N450million was recovered by the EFCC while the sum of N350million was released to the insurance firm. The insurance firm had requested for the release of the recovered funds in a letter dated September 20, 2019. A source close to the EFCC also disclosed that the remaining N100million was being processed and will be released to the insurance firm shortly. When contacted, the Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the Acting Chairman of the EFCC, Mr Tony Amokeodo, confirmed the development. He, however, declined to give further details on the matter.