The Director General, Cross River State Scholarship Board, Nuella Tessy Anyin has called on parents and guardians to teach their children lessons on virtues and good morals such as respect, honesty and love, saying that the move will prevent them from being led into vices. Ayin, in a statement to commemorate the International Children’s Day, said it is imperative for children to be taught the dangers of drug abuse, examination malpractice and cultism.
“As we do all of these, let’s remember the words of John F. Kennedy that “children are the world’s most valuable resource and its best hope for the future.” She said the Children’s Day comes up every year “to remind us of the need to do all we can in supporting the rights of the children who are not just tomorrow’s leaders but also nation builders.
“The day varies by date across different countries of the world. For us in Nigeria, we commemorate this day on the May 27, every year. Cross River State of course is never left out of this significant occasion of the children’s day celebration because we believe every child is worth celebrating.” She added that the day provided an opportunity to remind Cross Riverians the need to make the fight for children’s rights and promotion of their welfare a collective fight, adding that the domestication of the Child’s Rights Act in the state is a proof that the state supports children’s rights. “We must understand that children’s rights are not just mere rights; they are in actual sense fundamental human rights. The right to education is one of such rights which must not be toyed with. No child deserves to be out of school for whatsoever reason because an educated child is an asset to a nation,” the director general said. She expressed the passion of the Ben Ayade administration about the education of the Cross River child, which it places priority on. “Little wonder, His Excellency thought it wise to rename the State Ministry of Education the Ministry of Quality Education, in line with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) number 4 which is quality education. “As director general of the state Scholarship Board, I celebrate evey Cross River State child on this year’s Children’s Day. I also wish to reiterate that no stone will be left unturned in ensuring that every child in our dear state is given the right to quality education, Ayin stressed. She said this year’s celebration was different due to the COVID-19 pandemic with no gathering, while appealing to parents and guardians to teach their children how to stay safe as the country battles with the pandemic.
“Children should be taught safety measures such as washing of hands with running water, use of face masks and sanitizers to avoid the spread of the coronavirus disease.”