Coronation Capital Limited is set to host the second edition of its Corporate Finance and Business Valuation online training (Valuation Master Class). The four-day event is scheduled to hold on 2oth, 21st, 27th and 28th of July, 2020, and was designed to provide participants with a deeper understanding of corporate finance, valuation methodology and financial statement analysis with a key focus on appraising the business impact of financial decisions on the organizational performance. A statement from the organisers explained that, the Master Class would be headlined by the globally renowned Professor Aswath Damodaran: a Professor of Finance at New York University’s Stern School of Business. “Over the years, he has been referred to as Wall Street’s “Dean of Valuation” and is widely respected as one of the foremost experts on corporate valuation. Damodaran has published several books and articles on equity valuation and corporate finance and has been featured in the Journal of Finance, the Journal of Financial Economics, and the Review of Financial Studies. “Professor Damodaran has been voted ‘Professor of the Year’ by Stern’s graduating MBA class five times and has been awarded NYU’s Excellence in Teaching and Distinguished Teaching award; Coronation is delighted to bring him to Nigeria for a second time,” the statement added. Furthermore, it described the Valuation Master Class as a thought leadership and capacity building initiative of Coronation Capital. “Lecture sessions will be hosted virtually and will also feature an engaging one-on-one fire side chat with Professor Damodaran on various topics including his views on the current global business environment and the Nigerian economy – opportunities for growth and investment. “The Finance guru will train employees of Coronation Capital as well as related companies in the Coronation ecosystem which covers insurance, investment banking, asset management, technology and venture capital. Given that there is limited space, participation will be extended, by invitation only, to finance practitioners in the media and public sector as well as Coronation counterparties,” further stated. Commenting on the event, Managing Partner of Coronation Capital, John Opubor said: “The world has entered uncharted territory. History teaches that a return to fundamentals espoused by Professor Aswath Damodaran is crucial to thriving in times like this”. He further stated that, “Participants will, over four-days, benefit from a deep dive into corporate finance and valuation and how investments are impacted during these unprecedented times.”