President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered an investigation of the security incident that occurred at the precincts of the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Thursday night, when the First Lady’s Aide-de-camp, Usman Shugaba, attempted to force the President’s Special Assistant, Sabiu Yusuf, to self -isolate over COVID-19 fears. An altercation that degenerated into firing of gunshots had occurred on Thursday night between the First Lady Aisha Buhari and Sabiu, who is also President Buhari’s nephew, when the wife of the President, accompanied by three of her children and some security aides led by her ADC, attempted to force Sabiu to self-isolate over COVID-19 fears, after a trip to Lagos where he had gone to meet his wife who recently delivered a baby. Sabiu had refused, citing instances of the president’s Chief of Staff, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, and Mrs. Buhari’s daughters, Halima and Zahra, whom he said recently returned from trips without self-isolating. As the heated argument degenerated, Shugaba fired shots, which forced Sabiu to scamper for safety in the nearby house of his uncle, Mamman Daura. The incident, which has generated grave concerns across the country, compelled the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to order the detention of Shugaba and other security aides who accompanied the first lady to Sabiu’s residence. In a statement on Sunday, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media, Mallam Garba Shehu, said the Presidency acknowledged concerns expressed by several members of the public regarding the “incident among the occupants of the State House which escalation led to the arrest of some staff by the police.” Shehu said President Buhari had directed that proper investigation be carried out by the Police, in compliance with the rule of law. He also said the president had directed that the law should be allowed to take its course. The President’s spokesman however frowned on the fact that  “a minor occurrence is being used by some critics to justify attacks on the government and the person.” The statement read: “The Presidency wishes to acknowledge concerns expressed by several members of the public regarding the recent incident among the occupants of the State House which escalation led to the arrest of some staff by the police. “This is to assure all and everyone that the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, Muhammadu Buhari, is not, and was not at anytime in any form of danger arising, either from deadly infections or the reported incident by security personnel which is currently under investigation. “This particular incident happened outside the main residence of the President. “Armed guards and other security personnel assigned to the State House receive the necessary training of especially weapons handling and where they come short, their relevant agencies have their rules and regulations to immediately address them. “Having authorized the proper investigation to be carried out into this unfortunate incident by the Police, the President has acted in compliance with the rule of law. “That a minor occurrence is being used by some critics to justify attacks on the government and the person of President Muhammadu Buhari beggars belief.