By Chuks Okocha Governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Friday congratulated their Edo state counterpart, Godwin Obaseki, for emerging the governorship candidate of the party in the September 19 governorship election. In a letter of congratulations, the chairman of the PDP Governors Forum, Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, congratulated Governor Obaseki on his emergence as the flagbearer of the PDP in the Edo State governorship election, scheduled for September 2020. Tambuwal in the letter signed by the Director General of the PDP governors forum, C.I.D Maduabum, said that Obaseki’s victory in the primaries was an affirmation of the confidence the people of Edo State had in his ability to steer the ship of Edo State positively for another four years and on the record of his sterling performance in office in his current term. According to Tambueal, “This victory should be a humbling one as it has been achieved on the backdrop of a grave injustice done to him by his former Political party, the APC, and a demonstration of the role of God in the affairs of men. “It is indeed a call to continue faithfully serving the good people of Edo State”, the chairman of PDP governors said. . Tambuwal said that the victory was even more remarkable as Obaseki joined the PDP just a few weeks ago, and it was a testament to his leadership skills that he successfully got all other aspirants who started the race before him in PDP to step down for him and join him in salvaging the state without rancour or bitterness. “We hope that he will continue to deploy this management skill in uniting the PDP and Edo people in the great task of enthroning good governance and accountability in Edo State. He should ensure that there are truly no victors or vanquished in this struggle for the soul of Edo State”, Tambuwal tasked Obaseki . The Sokoto state governor said the PDP governors were grateful to the leadership of the PDP, particularly the National Working Committee, under the National Chairman, Chief Uche Secondus, the constructive and supporting role played by the Edo State chapter of the PDP and the rank and file members of the party, for their exceptional conflict resolution mechanism and cooperation employed to achieve the seamless rancour – free outcome of the primaries. According to him, “This sets the stage
for a resounding victory for PDP in September”, as the PDP has demonstrated with this outing in Edo
State, that it has learnt the lessons of the past and is poised to elevate the PDP platform as one that can offer stable and focused leadership for Nigeria. He said that the huge task of winning the Edo State election has just begun, and counseled Obaseki to
run an issue based campaign, anchored on his highly acclaimed record of superlative performance in office so far. The chairman of the PDP governors forum admonished all organs of state such as the security agencies and the Independent National
Electoral Commission, to ensure a free and fair election in Edo state in September. He also said, “We urge Nigerians and
the Civil society to be vigilant to ensure that all votes are counted and that all votes count in Edo State in September.