PREMIER LEAGUE Liverpool were crowned champions of England for the first time in 30 years last night after Manchester City lost 1-2 to Chelsea. Liverpool the 2019/20 Premier League season with 86 points from 31 matches. With just 21 points left from the remaining seven match-days of the English topflight, the Reds are 23 points ahead second-placed Manchester City on 63 points from 31 games. Last nights victory for Chelsea move them to 54 points in the fourth place and just one behind Leicester on third on 55 points. Only a win for Man City at Stamford Bridge would have allowed them to hold on to the Premier League trophy for a little longer and their two-season reign is now officially over. Pep Guardiola’s side lost a total of six league games in those two seasons combined, but their eighth defeat of this campaign leaves them 23 points behind the leaders, with seven games left. Kevin de Bruyne’s brilliant second-half free-kick cancelled out Christian Pulisic’s breakaway goal for the hosts but Liverpool’s title was confirmed with 12 minutes left when Fernandinho was sent off for handball on the line and Willian dispatched the resulting penalty. While City are still in the Champions League and continue their defence of the FA Cup at Newcastle on Sunday, their next act in the league will be as part of Liverpool’s coronation when they welcome the Reds to Etihad Stadium next Thursday. The outcome of this season’s title race has been inevitable for many months but Liverpool’s long wait to wrap up their 19th triumph, extended by the Premier League’s three-month break amid the coronavirus pandemic, is finally over. City’s hopes of delaying them further ended in all-too familiar fashion, with crisp passing and forward moves undermined by fragile defending and lapses in focus. They had been the better side until they gifted Chelsea the lead courtesy of a terrible mistake by Bernard Mendy after Chelsea had cleared a first-half free-kick. The France left-back had Ilkay Gundogan in support but was far too casual as he gave Pulisic possession near the halfway line, then compounded his error by diving in and allowing the American to sprint clear and slot home. De Bruyne’s brilliant dipping free-kick arrowed into the top corner to bring City level shortly after the break and they almost took the lead moments later when Raheem Sterling hit the post after a stunning counter-attack. Chelsea went close at the other end when Fernandinho let Pulisic in and he rounded Ederson, only to be denied by a brilliant goal-line clearance by Kyle Walker. That was a huge let-off for City but they were not so lucky the next time Chelsea came forward. Ederson denied substitute Tammy Abraham and then Fernandinho blocked Pulisic’s follow-up but the video assistant referee confirmed what everyone watching on TV had already seen – that he had used his hand to clear. Referee Stuart Attwell showed the Brazilian a red card after pointing to the spot, and Willian planted his spot-kick into the net to ensure the night belonged to Chelsea – and Liverpool of course.