The corporate world has not been the same since the wrecking ball that is COVID-19 came crashing into stocks and strategies. The banking sector tops the list of sectors thoroughly thrown out of course by the pandemic and all the measures set in place to curb it. With the debris of uncertainty everywhere, few banking brands have been able to rise to the surface and continue along the stream of progress. Fidelity is one of such banks, and much of its recent successes are a result of the work and team of Nnamdi Okonkwo, the Managing Director. A few weeks ago, Fidelity Bank announced that its gross earnings for the first quarter of 2020 grew by 5.7% in relation to the previous quarter. In essence, this was a profit of about 2.7 billion in a space of three months. This is a stellar report indeed, especially in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting corporate conditions. However, Nnamdi Okonkwo has always maintained that the greatest advantage of Fidelity Bank is its uncontested flexibility and capacity to adapt to new economic circumstances and uncertainties. Be that as it may, the ship does not drive itself, neither does the helm; overall, it is the Captain’s foresight and ability. For Captain Nnamdi Okonkwo, the COVID-19 pandemic is just another avenue to set Fidelity Bank apart from every other. Since assuming office as the MD in 2014, Okonkwo’s 30-plus years of banking experience have been channelled towards the growth and advancement of the Bank. This has yielded several blue-ribbon awards and acclaim for both Fidelity Bank and Nnamdi Okonkwo himself. One of the characteristic markers of Nnamdi Okonkwo’s operation is the quiet, behind-the-scenes formation. This entails him working in the backgrounds and wearing the medals of gold when results are finally announced. This is how he has been winning the Banker of the Year award, as shown by Marketing Edge’s and Lagos Times’ recognition of him. As Nnamdi Okonkwo continues to make waves with Fidelity Bank, one is reminded of a whale gently stroking the surface of oceans with the strength of its physique. That’s Okonkwo—making waves beneath the shell of an affable but decisive temperament.