By Emma Okonji In line with the objective of creating a seamless strategy to augment its effective management and regulation of the telecommunications sector, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), will on June 23, 2020, unveil a five-year (2020-2024) Strategic Management Plan(SMP). The SMP is expected to leverage on the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) as well as the new National Broadband Plan (NBP) 2020-2025 Roadmaps. It will cover the guiding principles and act as the operations manual for the commission towards actualising the digital economy agenda of the federal government in the next five years. The Director of Public Affairs at NCC, Dr. Henry Nkemadu, in a statement issued yesterday, said the SMP, which was developed in-house with the stamp of the management and board, would be a vision document of the commission for planning, monitoring, analyzing and assessment of its goals and objectives in the next five years. It will be resident in the Corporate Planning, Strategy and Risk Management Department, which will ensure that the contents of the document become the guiding principles for the commission in the next five years. According to Nkemadu, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ibrahim Pantami, would unveil and launch the NCC Strategic Management Plan (SMP) 2020-2024 supported by the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of the NCC, Professor Adeolu Akande, and the Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive, Professor Umar Garba Danbatta. All members of the Board of Commissioners of NCC will be in attendance. Nkemadu said Danbatta had since extended invitations to all the heads of parastatals under the ministry and all stakeholders to virtually witness the once–five-years launch that is expected to move the sector to the next level especially now that the stakes are getting higher in terms of services provided and the quality expected by the consumers. The event, which will be held through a virtual gathering of the concerned persons, will unveil the SMP; ensure the uploading of the SMP on the NCC website and unveil the NCC strategy among others.