By Sunday Ehigiator The Lagos State Police at the weekend said they arrested three men, Eke Kanu, 61, and Chibuike Kalu, 33, who both allegedly raped their daughters; and Chinedu Obi, 26, for allegedly raping twin sisters, who are minors. According to a statement signed by the state police spokesperson, DSP Bala Elkana DSP, “On June 6, 2020, at about 3:30p.m., the Ikorodu Police Station received a complaint from a member of FIDA that one Eke Kanu, 61, of Ebute road, Igbogbo in Ikorodu was having unlawful sexual affair with his 19-year-old daughter (name withheld). “The survivor stated that her father started having sexual intercourse with her when she was a little girl, and threatened to deal with her if she told anyone. “She further stated that when her father discovered that she was pregnant, he took her to a chemist where she was administered some drugs and injection to abort the pregnancy. “The survivor was taken to Mirabel Centre by the police for medical attention and forensic examination. The suspect was arrested and taken to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, for discreet investigation and diligent prosecution.” Elkana added: “In a related development, on June 26, 2020, at about 7:30p.m., Bariga Police Station received a report that one Chibuike Kalu, 33, of Amodu Street in Bariga defiled his 14 years old daughter. “The survivor was also taken to Mirabel Centre in Ikeja for medical treatment and forensic examination. The suspect was arrested and he confessed to the commission of the crime. He will be charged to court. “Also, in another event, on June 16, 2020, at about 2:55p.m., a woman of over 30-years (name withheld) reported at the Aguda Police Station in Surulere that her salesman, Chinedu Obi, 26, allegedly had sexual intercourse with her 12-year-old twin daughters (names withheld) when she left the two girls with him in her house. The suspect was arrested and he confessed to the crime. He stated that he started having sexual intercourse with the girls in 2019. “The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered the transferred of the case to Gender Unit at the state headquarters in Ikeja for discreet investigation and diligent prosecution.” Meanwhile, Odumosu in the statement advised parents not to trust anyone with their kids, especially female children. He further reaffirmed the commitment of the police command to continually apprehend sexual offenders, wherever they are in the state and make them face the full weight of the law.