By Emmanuel Ugwu The hardships that Nigerians are facing due to the COVID-19 pandemic with its attendant grounding of social and economic activities is not lost on the people of Abia State living abroad. To this end, some Abians in the Diapora are thinking home and sending palliatives to the people in their home communities to cope with the present dire condition. One of the communities in Abia State that has benefitted from such transatlantic succour is Ozuitem in Bends local government, which received palliatives from a couple from the community, who are living in the United States of America. Through the outreach programme of Hope Ministry Network, which they founded, Dr Emmanuel Igwe and his wife, Nnenna, really reached out to the vulnerable people of Isiegbu, Ozuitem Item. The people have every cause to be thankful as large quantities of bags of rice and cartons of noodles were donated to them to meet their food needs. The couple are also the founders of Hope Ministry Network, USA, Hope Ministries Outreach, and Hope Africa Projects, Nigeria. Dr Igwe said that the palliatives were “in response to the impact of the Covid-19” on the members of their community, who like other Nigerians are suffering from hunger and economic deprivation following the Covod-19 lockdown imposed by government. The palliatives were presented on behalf of the founders of Hope Ministry Network by Chief Chidiebere Asonye, who is a former deputy chairman, Bende local government of Abia State. There was abundant joy and happiness as the beneficiaries sang and prayed for the founders of Hope Ministry Network for remembering them in this season of hardships and sufferings. Specifically the beneficiaries were drawn from the villages of Obuofia, Ofiavu, Agbolobo and Elu na Agbo, all in Isiegbu, Ozuitem. Speaking with THISDAY via WhatsApp message, Dr Igwe said that he and his wife were touched by the plight of their people back home in Nigeria hence their decision to come to their assistance. The with compassionate heart urged other prominent members of Abia communities in the diaspora to rise to the occasion and help. “Living beyond oneself is the best sacrifice there is,” he said, adding that people should not despair because “We know that what the enemy meant for evil, our God will turn around for our good”.