By Segun Awofadeji As part of its determined effort to support the Bauchi Government to cushion the harsh condition caused by the Coronavirus pandemic, Olam Nigeria Limited has donated food items to the less privileged in Ningi, Itas/Gadau and Zaki Local Government Areas of Bauchi state. Our Correspondent reports that the exercise covers communities in Nasaru and Balma in Ningi LGA;Gadau in Itas-Gadau LGA and Sakwa in Zaki LGA of Bauchi State. Presenting the food items to the beneficiaries in Nasaru and Balma communities of Ningi local government areas Friday, the Manager in charge of Azare Unit,Olam Nigeria Limited, Mr. Adebayo Solomon explained that the items distributed “by OLAM was part of commitment and contribution to cushion the effect and hardship caused by COVID-19 pandemic”. Solomon noted that “this exercise which we are witnessing here today is a gesture of the OLAM, which was distributed to the less privileged and some staff most affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, as part of its Cooperate Social Responsibility (CSR)”. According to the Olam manager, “as a responsible and responsive organisation we could not turn away and don’t intervene especially in a way like this in bringing succour to our host communities and staff who work with the company”. ” I want you to note that apart from the food items being distributed to these communities and the 29 bags of 10kg rice distributed to our workers which we call Food Assistance (FA), we are also engaged in creating awareness on FM stations in Azare, Gamawa and Zaki on how our people can manage this covid-19 scourge in accordance with government protocols and measures “ The Manager who expressed optimism that “we will all weather through the present challenges and come out safe and stronger”, urged the beneficiaries to receive the item and see it as the company’s token of love and part of our social responsibility to our host communities”. “Even if it is small at least it would go a long way in mitigating the impact being felt globally by the coronavirus,” he stated. Items donated and distributed by the company includes; 25 bags of rice and 250 baskets of assorted food items including Spaghetti, Maggi and beans, among others. The beneficiaries interviewed at the presentation expressed appreciation and thanked the commodity company for remembering them in their present condition. They expressed their gratitude for the goodwill gesture, adding that this will further grow and strengthen their support and cooperation with the company. The occasion was attended by the Bauchi State Commissioner for Agriculture, Pharmacist Samaila Burga, represented by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Agricultural Matters, Dr.Ilyasu Aliyu Vital, as well as the Programme Manager, Bauchi State Agricultural Development Programme (BSADP),among others.