By Ebere Nwoji Underwriting firm, Great Nigeria Insurance Plc, said it is partnering with the Ogun State Security Trust Fund to ensure effective discharge of its duty of securing lives and properties in the state. The company, said it is doing this through donations as part of its strategic corporate social eesponsibility (CSR) initiatives. The Managing Director/CEO of the company, Mrs. Cecilia Osipitan, said as a socially responsible corporate entity, the company’s donation was in fulfillment of its resolve to support causes that will help create a safer and better society. She stated that the partnership with the government was focused on ensuring that the desired security stance is maintained within the state and its environs. She also said that the donation was informed by the need to boost the Security Fund’s operation, saying security was essential to economic development. She reaffirmed continuous support to the Ogun State Security Trust Fund (OSTF) in actualising its main objective which is to maintain the security and welfare of citizens in building a safe community. Osipitan, commended Ogun State government under Governor, Dapo Abiodun for encouraging an enabling environment for businesses in the State, particularly pointing out the remarkable improvement in security across the state. According to her, the Ogun State Security Trust Fund has witnessed great re-engineering by Governor Abiodun which will greatly impact on the operations of the security initiative. She therefore encouraged other private sector stakeholders to increase their contribution in funding the state’s security initiative. While acknowledging the improved security situation in Ogun State, Osipitan, lauded the leadership style of Governor Abiodun, likening the state to a business enterprise being efficiently managed by its Chief Executive Officer. Speaking, the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun said the Security Trust Fund was established in 2011 as a public-private partnership for the improvement of security in the state. He acknowledged that since October 2019, Great Nigeria Insurance Plc, has supported the Ogun State Security Trust Fund in line with fulfilling its obligation to support its host community.