Rebecca Ejifoma Award-winning Nollywood actress, filmmaker, director and producer, Olutoyin Aimakhu popularly known as Toyin Abraham has signed an ambassadorial deal with one of the biggest real estate companies in Nigeria, Revolution Plus Properties in Lagos. The event which took place in the office of the organisation, saw the influential actress clinched the deal among many others. According to the CEO, Revolution Plus Properties, Mr. Chris Bamidele Onalaja, Abraham was singled out because of her personality and what she represents in the society. He also said she would be helping the organisation energise and grow her social footprints and community with her positivity, and also to establish an authentic connection with her clients and prospective ones. Onalaja enthused that in the mood of double celebration, they are also showcasing another amazing promo tagged Ileya Bounty Promo. “It is a time to celebrate with our Muslim clients and prospect. We are offering a super amazing promo with exciting gifts as well with No interest involved.” The CEO expressed that at Revolution Plus Property, they are determined to make their clients feel safe and enjoy the benefits of procuring lands from them with no harassments. “Who best represents the ideology and push than Toyin Abraham.” Reacting to the ambassadorial deal, the actress lauded the firm for finding her worthy of this feat. She pledged, “I promise that the partnership will be the beginning of better things to come for both parties”. She further expressed: “I’m really excited to start showcasing Revolution Plus Properties to the world. The company has been doing great things and also helping Nigerians with different humanitarian gestures.” “I think why I accepted this deal is because they represent who I am and what I want to achieve. Hence, we are doing this signing today,” Toyin stated. Meanwhile, Revolution Plus is a company known for signing up notable personalities in the society. It has signed celebrities like Adekunle gold and Rachael Oniga among others. Today, however, Toyin has joined other ambassadors like Odunlade Adekola, Omoni Oboli and Testimony Jaga who are presently also brand ambassadors of Revolution Plus Property.