By Deji Elumoye President of the Senate, Dr Ahmad Lawan; Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and his predecessor, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, have described the late former governor of Oyo state, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, as a bridge builder and patriot.
In separate condolence messages, the trio eulogised the immediate past Governor of Oyo state who was also a Senator during the Fifth National Assembly.
The Senate President, who expressed his grief over the death of Ajimobi said the deceased who once represented Oyo South Senatorial District in the Senate before he was elected to two consecutive terms as governor, will be missed by the people of Oyo State and the progressives political family throughout Nigeria.
Lawan said Oyo State will always remember him for his numerous achievements over which the people rewarded him as the first governor to be re-elected in the history of the politically sophisticated state.
Lawan said his death will also be felt by the ruling All Progressives Congress especially at a time the party is calling all hands to the deck to steady its sail.
According to him, “We, at the Senate, mourn Senator Ajimobi who also served with merit at the upper legislative chamber between 2003 and 2007 during which time he was the Deputy Senate Minority Leader”.
Lawan also condoled with the family, friends and political associates of the departed former governor and prayed for Allah to comfort them.
On his part, Omo-Agege noted that the late Ajimobi would be remembered for his patriotism and passionate commitment to delivering dividends of democracy to the people.
While expressing shock and sadness over the unfortunate incident, the Deputy Senate President said the All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain left at a time his experience as an astute administrator would be needed most.
“As a senator in 2003 and governor of Oyo State between 2011 and 2019, his immense contributions to the development of the state and country will remain evergreen in our hearts,” he noted.
While extending his condolences to the government and people of the state and praying to the Almighty God to grant his soul eternal rest, Omo-Agege called on Nigerians to remember his family in their prayers at these trying moments.
In his reaction, Ekweremadu, described the late Ajimobi, as a bridge builder
The former Deputy Senate President eulogised the late former Senator as an accomplished public administrator, legislator per excellent, pan Nigerian, and bridge builder.
He expressed sadness over his demise describing it as a grave loss to the nation.
The Chairman of the Senate committee on Environment said: “I received with a deep sense of loss the passing on of my friend, brother, and colleague in the 5th Senate, Distinguished Senator Isiaka Abiola Ajimobi.
“As a grandson of the a former chief in the revered Ibadan royal court and scion of former member of the defunct Western Region House of Assembly, Ajimobi brought his rich political background to bear in his service to his people and the nation as a whole.
“He no doubt excelled in political engineering and mobilisation and will forever be remembered as a jinx breaker, being the first to be reelected for a second term in office as Governor of Oyo State.
“Even in death, he is not diminished. Although he lost the protracted battle for his life, it will always be said of him that he came, he saw, and he conquered”