Friendship is a force like no other. To mind the wisdom of King Solomon, money is a shelter even as wisdom is a shelter; but the advantage of friendship is that it preserves the lives of its bearers. That is the tale of Prince Bolu Akin-Olugbade—the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Owu Kingdom—and Olu Okeowo—Asiwaju Onigbagbo of Iruwon Ijebu Ode; what the duo have in common, and the differences that exist now. Bolu Akin-Olugbade and Olu Okeowo are two of the richest folks in Nigeria. Although they aren’t as wealthy as Aliko Dangote, Femi Otedola, or Mike Adenuga, Akin-Olugbade and Okeowo are über rich in their own rights. They are also recognised titleholders from their respective communities in Ogun State: Akin-Olugbade is from Owu-Abeokuta, while Okeowo is from Iruwon-Ijebu Ode. In the old days, Akin-Olugbade and Okeowo were chummy companions, by far one of the closest duo within the same status of wealth and standing. They partied together, travelled together, and even dressed alike. But what the duo reportedly had as a shared interest above all else was love for the Rolls Royce automobile.
Aare Bolu Akin-Olugbade and Olu Okeowo have both made it a point of note to spend money on very expensive cars, especially the Rolls Royce brand. According to media waves, both of them have at least 5 vehicles of that brand registered in their name and resting in their garages. For those in the dark concerning their businesses, Akin-Olugbade is a billionaire businessman, while Okeowo is a property merchant and the Chairman of Gibraltar Construction Nigeria Limited. Although the latter is the more quiet/reserved of the two, their cars speak for their mutual appreciation for the best things that money can acquire. With all their shared narratives, Akin-Olugbade and Okeowo are reportedly estranged. The reason for the split has been speculated up and down. However, the rumours boil down to age differences and an ambition to outshine each other. The first speculated cause follows the older Bolu Akin-Olugbade allegedly demanding respect from the younger Olu Okeowo on account of age—and the latter refusing. The second speculated cause for their split has been cited as the reason both of them still acquire Rolls Royces whenever they can.
Friendship or not, the owners of the Rolls Royce car brand are not losing out.