The Lagos State government, through its Sports Commission and O’Jez Entertainment at the weekend distributed palliatives to members of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (Lagos SWAN) to cushion effect of COVID-19 pandemic on sports journalists in the state. Each of the over 250 Lagos SWAN members received bags of 5kg rice, 5kg beans, 5kg semolina/noodles, 2 litres of groundnut oil, condiments and 200ml hand sanitisers. Speaking at the presentation ceremony at Molade Okoya-Thomas Multi-purpose Hall of Teslim Balogun Stadium, LSSC Director General, Oluwatoyin Gafaar, said the essence of the palliative was to cushion the effect of the pandemic on the sports journalists. His words: “This is in line with what Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has been doing to relief the citizens during this difficult period and SWAN Lagos being our immediate constituency. “We have no option than to extend the gesture and support to the association. We have a lot of plans for Lagos SWAN members and as we move forward together, we will seek ways to support them,” observed the DG of the sports Commission. While receiving the items, Lagos SWAN Chairman, Debo Oshundun, thanked Gov. Sanwo-Olu, through Lagos State Sports Commission Chairman, Shola Aiyepeku, and his Director General, Oluwatoyin Gafaar, for the laudable gesture. “You know in any given situation, journalists are always at the receiving end because people believe that journalism is a thankless job. Even during the lockdown that people were at home, we were still working,” observed the Lagos SWAN boss. He thanked the Chairman of O’Jez Entertainment, Chief Joseph Odobeatu for also supporting the association. ”We also have to thank O’Jez Chairman for helping to fumigate our SWAN Secretariat inside the National Stadium, Surulere. “O’Jez also provided face-masks and some food items for our members,” he Oshundun said that the association provided boxes of Honeywell products for members. “The situation is tough for everybody, but this is what we have to do as an executive committee for our members. This will help to ameliorate the effect of the pandemic on them and their families,” concludes Oshundun.