A teenage student of the Federal College of Animal and Production Technology, Moore Plantation, Apata, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, has reportedly been raped to death in her father’s house in Ibadan. The 18-year old girl whose name was given as Miss Barakat Bello was said to have been assaulted in her residence at Akinyele Local Government Area of the state. The student of Laboratory Technology was attacked on Monday but her corpse was later discovered behind her family house The father of the rape victim, Mr. Kasimu Elepo, who said the girl’s sister discovered her remains, noted that he had gone out when the incident occurred. The distraught father said the younger sister and himself were not at home. “The sister went for Qur’anic lessons but when she returned home, she saw her at the back of the house with deep cuts all over her body,” he explained. According to him, it was a call from an unidentified man that alerted him that something ominous had happened. However, the Police Public Relations Officer, Oyo State Police Command, SP Gbenga Fadeyi, said he was yet to be briefed about the incident. “Effort is being intensified to confirm the credibility of the report. At present, the Divisional Police Officers (DPOs), Oluyole, and Apata divisions were contacted but we found out that the address that was quoted is not correct. When I got the DPOs and I inquired, the two of them said at present, there is no such report in their record”. Meanwhile, the National Association of Nigerian Students, Zone D, has demanded justice for the victim, saying that the raping of women must stop. The deceased, who was a member of the Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria, was buried on Tuesday according to Islamic rites. The murder of the teenager has sparked protests on Twitter with the #JusticeforBarakat. UK-based medical doctor, Harvey Olufunmilayo, said the rape ‘epidemic’ must be brought to an end. Another tweet by @mideglow read, “This is becoming too much!!! We are tired of burying our sisters and friends. We are tired of molestation and rape! Capital punishment should be meted to the perpetrators.”