Three Nigerian Start-ups are among the 11 selected to pitch at Sanofi’s AfricaTech Challenge holding online on June 11, 2020. This is following the cancellation of the 2020 edition of Viva Technology organised by Sanofi. The objective is to continue Sanofi’s commitment to encourage innovation in Africa, improve access to healthcare and transform the health ecosystem throughout the continent. For this 3rd edition, Sanofi has received 268 applications,mcompared to 222 it received last year from 34 countries. 11 finalists were selected, based on five criteria: project maturity, early results, relevance of the solution, market potential and business model, as well as the skills and expertise of the team. At the finals, three start-ups, namely Bypa-ss of Egypt, Keeplyna of Tunisia and EYONE of Senegal are tasked with the first challenge : ‘How to support patients with a digital health book in order to access information and make decision’. The second Challenge, ‘How to help healthcare systems leapfrog from manual to smart logistics solutions at point of care’, has a Nigerian start-up, Mobilhealth International and an Indian start-up, Doctor 4 Africa pitching. Another Nigerian start-up, SOSO CARE will compete against MamaPrime of Kenya and JokkoSanté of Senegal in the challenge: ‘How to improve financing and impact of innovative health solutions in Africa’. Natal Cares of Nigeria, Teheca of Uganda and The University Agency Innovation of Cameroun are tasked with the challenge: ‘How to improve maternal and neonatal health in sub-Saharan Africa’. At the 2020 AfricaTech live virtual pitch, these startups will compete in their respective challenge categories before an online audience and a jury made up of global professionals, investors and thought leaders in technology and healthcare. Sanofi’s General Manager, in charge of General Medicines, Nigeria Ghana and Country Lead, Nigeria, Folake Odediran, while commenting on the upcoming live pitch, said: “The AfricaTechinitiative is in line with our purpose of empowering lives. We are so far impressed with the progress of the 2020 Challenge and are happy for all the finalists who have made it this far. We are even more excited that three of them emerged from our Nigeria-Ghana affiliate and we hope that the best techpreneurs win.” After Viva Technology 2020 was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the selected startups will now be invited to pitch their solutions on June 11, 2020, during a special Sanofi Africatech day by video conference.