Mary Nnah Nevada Bridge TV, a division of Nevada Bridge Productions, also a leading movie streaming app in Nigeria with over 200 movies accessible to its subscribers, has announced Gideon Okeke, Alexx Ekubo and Ego Nwosu as its ambassadors. The firm is also declared itself as talent management of Okeke and Nwosu. The announcement was made at an event which held on June 20 in Lagos. Through the partnership, the company endorses these African talents and assumes the responsibility of supporting their creative initiatives and endeavors. A part of the benefits to the endorsees includes full health insurance policy covering for the period of three years. Nevada Bridge Productions is on a unique drive to increase its repertoire of African content, by partnering with talent (actors, writers, and producers), commissioning home-grown media content, in films, theatre, comedy and concerts, for further syndication on its streaming arm, Nevada Bridge TV. Nevada Bridge Productions through its endorsee – Gideon Okeke, will go into partnership with a leading Health Insurance Provider of his choice, to provide health insurance covering for over 100 Creative Professionals, post COVID 19. To express his profound delight, Gideon Okeke had this to say “This goodwill initiative is effective on the 23rd of JULY this year, it also coincides with my birthday, and I hope to make it an annual event, on this second act of my career” According to the CEO of the company, Neville Sajere, he said: “Providing HMO for managed talents or ambassadors is not common in our ecosystem, and we wish to address that. It’s indeed sad that we lose our talented entertainers because they are not able to access or afford healthcare and resort to soliciting for funds from the general public when their health must have deteriorated.” “This initiative will eventually improve the access to healthcare in the performing arts industry thereby reducing the number of actors that solicit for funds for ailments. Post COVID, actors will be expected to return to work, but it is pertinent that they are supported with access to healthcare,” he added. In his statement, COO, Patrick Uzoh, said: “We have critically selected Gideon, Ego and Alexx as we have noticed that they are one of the most talented young actors that can play on the global scale. We have studied them and seen that they have been dedicated to their craft, they are passionate and emotional about their work.” Nevada Bridge TV provides premium content for its subscribers in the most affordable and comfortable fashion. The company is a part of the tech community enhancing entertainment with technology. With as little as N750 ($2) monthly, subscribers have access to loads of movies that can either be watched on their mobile phone, laptops or smart Tvs. Nevada Bridge TV is known to have won the Hearts of the Nigerians at home and in diaspora.