Chiemelie Ezeobi The House of Representatives will on Thursday host the Officer-in-Charge of the Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Deputy Commissioner of Police, Abba Kyari. Kyari is to be honoured for his exceptional work in the fight against criminality across the country. The House which took the resolution based on a motion of urgent public importance brought by Rep. Ahmad Usman Jaha, from Borno, said the resolve to recognise Kyari was based on his extraordinary courage and patriotism in tackling high profile crimes. The House Speaker, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila who presided over the plenary session told colleagues that having Kyari in Thursday’s plenary is in line with the 9th Assembly’s legislative agenda of encouraging outstanding Nigerians who excell in their choosen fields of endeavour. He said: “When I read the profile of that young man and the exploits he has made as a young police officer, I was impressed, and I think it’s only natural that we, in line with our legislative agenda and the practice of this Assembly invite DCP Abba Kyari to be at the session this thursday to formally recieve legislative commendation from the House of Nigerians”. Jaha’s motion had noted that DCP Kyari was among the very few outstanding young officers of the Nigerian Police as Officer Cadet. “The young officer served in several states of the federation, including Adamawa in the North East and Lagos in the south West. “The gallant officer and his team recorded severaI successes in combating organised crime in Nigeria which include Arrest of the notorious kidnapper known as Evans in Lagos and the capture of the deadly kidnapper White VAMPIRE in Owerri, Imo state; arrest of the killer of the former Chief of Defense staff, Alex Badeh; arrest of several Boko-Haram Commander’s including bomb makers and those responsible for the kidnap of the famous Chibok girls. “Arrest of the deadly Offa Bank robbers that invaded Ofa town in Kwara and robbed five different commercial banks and murdered over 31 innocent Nigerians including a pregnant woman, making it the deadliest bank robbery in Nigeria’s history.”