Rebecca Ejifoma The Pastor of Peculiar Generation Assembly Church in Lagos, Chris McDouglas Omosokpea, has landed in the police net for an alleged sexual abuse of his member’s 14-year-old daughter (name withheld) for four years. Omosokpea, whose church is situated at 17/19 Mututiatu Kayode Street, Mafoluku in Oshodi, was said to have been invited at the Makinde Police Station for the alleged defilement of the said girl after the family reported the matter to the police. He, however, sought redress at Zone 2 Police Command at Onikan. At the Zone 2, where the victim’s family and the alleged pedophile were invited for a meeting, the mother of the victim (name withheld), said Omosokpea wrote a petition to the AIG against her, and even threatened to deal with her. During interrogation on June 1, Omosokpea was said to have confessed to the allegations levelled against him-sexual abuse of the 14-year-old girl, who is now aged 18. This made the DCP of the Command to order for his immediate detention on the charge of statutory rape which attracts several years of imprisonment if tried and found guilty before the court. According to the victim, although she hid the truth from her parents, she spoke out after four years when she was becoming more traumatised and mature enough to speak out. Meanwhile, Omosokpea’s wife, Mrs. McDouglas, countered her claims. She told the police that she knew about the abuse, but said her husband was in a relationship with her. She further accused the victim’s mother of being aware of the affair between her husband and her daughter. Reacting to his arrest, the Secretary and Operations Manager of Advocates for Children and Vulnerable Persons Network (ACVPN), Mr. Ebenezer Omejalile, acknowledged that the arrest was made possible with the help of several officers and advocates. “We appreciate the good office of the PPRO Z2, the D8 team, our advocates, Iya Gani Fawehimi, in the person of Abiodun of African Women Lawyers Association (AWLA), Our Criminal Justice Officer, Mrs. Asala and Ify,” he listed. Omejalile added: “Another meeting has been fixed for June 5 while Omosokpea would remain in custody.”