Rebecca Ejifoma While reviewing a series of iconic personalities of reputable standards cum skilled capacity in the Public Relations industry in Nigeria, nimble Millz Olawale is gradually climbing the list. With the brightness in his career engagements and excellence in his outstanding PR records, it was quite far from difficult discovering his impact and achievements especially in the entertainment industry. Obviously, Olawale is a pertinacious, well-practised and skilled PR Strategist, Analyst and Specialist. Having erected a long history of experience with significant appointments and PR roles, he remains one of the most dogged media personalities of this age. “My professional capacity is majored on skilled management, advertising, event management, marketing and social media promotions,” he listed. He had fully hatched his dreams and vision in the PR profession since teenage. Olawale, in his academic career, bagged a Bachelor of Science (Bsc) in City/Urban, Community and Regional Planning from the University of Lagos. Before then, he had his Alma Mata at Ayotayo Nursery and Primary School before proceeding to SMA College in Isolo Lagos state, where he had his first school-leaving certificate. Today, thanks to his working experience at several organisations, he is labelled a professional PR consultant with records of significant feats, and recognised for his strides in the PR industry and especially in the promotion and fame of several notable celebrities, events, campaigns and institutions. Among some of his notable engagements may include his recognition as the Best Use of Social Media, which he received at the Dynamix Magazine Award in 2015. Interestingly, Olawale was the online publicity personnel for Skills Entertainment from 2009 to 2011. He later worked as the PR manager at Showman Entertainment in 2012. From 2012 to 2015, he was the Online PR Publicity Personnel for Olodonation and in 2014; he had worked briefly with PR Team for Guineas Made of Black Campaign. Soon, he was appointed the Head PR for Lions Music in 2016. Currently, he is serving as an artiste and repertoire director since 2018 till date.