Francis Sardauna in Katsina and Laleye Dipo in Minna Bandits again struck two communities in Dan-Musa Local Government Area of Katsina State and three communities in Manta District of Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State, leaving 10 persons dead and many others injured. This is coming as the Nigerian military has reassured President Muhammed Buhari and Nigerians of its commitment to end all forms of criminality across the country. While the attack in Katsina occurred yesterday, the one in happened on Wednesday evening. Among those killed in yesterday’s attack in Katsina was a policeman. The policeman was said to have been killed when a police team drafted to repel the bandits ran into an ambush. The Spokesman for the Katsina Police Command, SP Gambo Isah, confirmed the incident. He said, “They (the bandits) are over 100 in number. As we are reaching out for support from our base at Maidabino, they ambushed our team, killing one security personnel.” ”We have redeployed more personnel to the area to enhance the security of the area and arrest the perpetrators.” In the three communities in Manta District of Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State where four persons were killed, it was gathered that the bandits, riding on motorcycles, shot repeatedly. The affected villages include Sunko, Gavya, Marafa in Manta District Shiroro local government Area. Apart from the four killed, some sustained injuries while others are still missing. Efforts to get a confirmation from the Niger Police Command proved abortive. However, the Co-convener of Concerned Shiroro Youths, Sani Abubakar Yusuf Kokki confirmed the attack. According to him the effects of the coordinated and premeditated attacks are devastating and mind-boggling lamenting that many lives and properties were lost. “During the heinous operations, not fewer than four people were gruesomely gunned down including one woman who was fleeing to a nearby island for fear of her life but alas, she couldn’t escape as fate caught up with her and she was eventually shot with a gun from a far distance and she died on the spot. “Apart from human losses incurred, many properties worth huge amount of money were stolen, while many herds of cattle were rustled as well as the destruction of unquantifiable valuables including inflicting various degrees of injuries on unsuspecting locals,” the youth said. Kokki lamented that attacks of this nature have become regular occurrences in substantial parts of Shiroro Local Government in Niger State stating that there have been no commensurate resistance, confrontation or even counterattack from the security agencies and other authorities concerned. “These villages no longer have a security presence, that is why these bandits come and go at will without any show of resistance. My people continually live in fear daily and we are scared of what will come next.” Meanwhile, following President Muhammadu Buhari’s recent assessment of the performances of the service chiefs in the war against insurgency, the Nigerian military has reassured the president and Nigerians of its commitment to end all forms of criminality across the country. But briefing Defence Correspondents in Abuja, the Coordinator Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, said the Armed Forces of Nigeria in concert with other security agencies are determined to stamp out criminality in accordance with the President’s directive. He said that troops deployed for various operations across the nation will remain committed and resolute in achieving the operational mandate. According to him, “I am therefore directed to reiterate that, the Armed Forces of Nigeria in concert with other security agencies wish to assure the populace of our determination to stamp out all forms of criminality across the country in accordance with the directives of the C-in-C. “Troops deployed for various operations across the nation will remain committed and resolute in achieving the operational mandate which is to decisively curtail the activities of criminals in any part of the Nation. The Military High Command empathizes with all those who have been affected by the activities of terrorists, armed bandits and other criminals in one way or another. “It equally appreciate Nigerians for their patience and cooperation in giving us timely and credible information on the activities of criminals in their localities. This has greatly assisted us in our operations so far. The general public is hereby encouraged not to relent, but to continue providing the military and other security agencies with timely and accurate information on the activities of terrorists, bandits and other criminals to aid our operations”. He continued that, “the Armed Forces of Nigeria has continued its major operations across the country. In this regard our regular update is necessary to acquaint the general public on our progress. Gentlemen of the Press, you are all aware of the Commander-in-Chief’s (C-in-C) comment regarding our operations across the country. “Consequently, our update today would dwell on our bid to re-strategize operational activities of the Armed Forces of Nigeria in conjunction with other security agencies. “Therefore, in furtherance of the efforts by the Armed Forces of Nigeria to change the tide of our various operations across the country, the Chief of Defence Staff General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin held a meeting with Service Chiefs, the Inspector General of Police, and Heads of other Security and Intelligence agencies on Monday 22 June 2020. “The meeting was one of the series of meetings to re-strategize and enhance existing synergy among all security agencies to address the lingering security challenges bedeviling the nation. The meeting focused on developing and mapping out new strategies to address the untoward security situation particularly in the North West, North East and North Central parts of the country.