Turkish Airlines, flying to more countries than any other airline, was reported as the busiest operator in Europe last week after successfully restarting domestic and international passenger operations. On Wednesday, June 17, 2020, Turkish Airlines recorded 400 flights in Eurocontrol area; the highest number recorded in the area since Tuesday, March 24, 2020. The Pan-European civil-military organisation dedicated to supporting European aviation, Eurocontrol confirmed that Turkey’s national flag carrier operated 359 flights during the first week of June from its base at Istanbul Airport. On Sunday, June 14, three aircrafts took off simultaneously from Istanbul Airport’s third independent runway following its opening; a milestone for the future of Turkish aviation. Commenting on the development, Turkish Airlines’ Chairman of the Board and the Executive Committee, M. Ilker Ayci said: “It is our firm belief that once the world overcomes the crisis, air travel will bounce back stronger than ever and Turkish Airlines will be more than eager to welcome you aboard with our trademark hospitality as we connect continents, people and cultures. We fully adapted our customer touchpoints according to new normal standards.” With regards to resumption of services and safety measures, Turkish Airlines announced new Guidelines for Safe Travel and two new inflight services to protect the health of its guests. The airline is also distributing “Hygiene Kits” containing a face mask, disinfectant and antiseptic tissue to its guests, while “Hygiene Expert” cabin crews were assigned to flights to enforce all on-board hygiene and social distancing measures for the healthy travel of passengers. In addition, Turkish Airlines’ aircrafts are disinfected before each flight through thorough cleaning methods. Hygiene in the cabin is ensured as all contact points in the aircraft are comprehensively cleaned using chemicals safe for human health and methods that are proven scientifically to be effective. Special equipment and chemicals are used for different surfaces such as seats, windows, screens and lavatories.