By Ernest Chinwo The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has directed that all members of staff of the Government House, Port Harcourt be tested for coronavirus. This is as he said the on-going increased testing of prospective Covid-19 patients in the state is a commitment to save more lives. Wike spoke Monday when the Executive Director of BUA Foundation, Khalifa Rabiu, presented three ambulances to him at the Government House, Port Harcourt. He stated that more testing would reveal more Covid-19 cases in order to give prompt medical attention to the people. He said: “The more we test, the more the number will increase and we are willing to continue to test. Let our people know that this is not the kind of sickness to be ashamed of. Nobody knows who you have shook hands with. “I’m sure, in Rivers State, we have lost not less than 38 lives on the record. Nobody will be happy that each day you wake up, you hear that somebody, probably a bread winner of the family, is no longer there because of Covid-19 pandemic. “In fact, I have given a directive that all staff of Government House must go for testing, Nobody knows who is a carrier and we must save everybody as much as we can.” He noted the sustained support from BUA Foundation to the Rivers State Government particularly at this period of Covid-19 pandemic. He said most companies in the state are only interested in making profit but would not support the government to save lives. He asked companies operating in the state not to relent in supporting the government as that is where they are doing business. The Executive Director of BUA Foundation, Rabiu, expressed appreciation to Governor Wike for creating a conducive business environment for their operations. He said they had donated N100 million and a lorry load of Covid-19 preventive items plus the three ambulances they have presented Monday. Rabiu said the donation is a show of their support to the state government to enable it succeed in the fight against Covid-19. The Commissioner for Health, Prof. Princewill Chike, said so far, 3,434 samples have been tested and the state treatment centre has successfully managed and discharged about 584 patients. Chike also said there are about 284 medical personnel engaged and catered for by the state government at the treatment centres, and surveillance offices. This, he explained, is exclusive of those sponsored by the international oil companies, adding that the state government also released over 40 ambulances to strengthen the response capacity of the team.