Emma Okonji The federal government has inaugurated a steering committeemmittee for the Nigeria Digital Identity for Development Ecosystem Project to fast-track the implementation of the strategic roadmap for accelerating digital identity development for the country. Inaugurating the committee, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, who is also the chairman of the team, said digital identification remained central and critical to realising the objective of the government’s Economic and Recovery Growth Plan (ERGP). He said the strategic roadmap, approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) on September 12, 2018, “is a culmination of the enormous collective efforts and contributions of so many institutions and stakeholders, which began in the year 2015 when this government took a decision to forge a credible and cost-effective pathway for identification management.” According to him, to accelerate the implementation of the strategic roadmap, therefore, government considered and adopted a three-tiered institutional arrangement comprising of a Steering Committee, a Strategic Unit, an Implementation Unit situated in the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), and with responsibilities for providing overall governance and coordination, ecosystem partners’ coordination and communication and day-to-day project implementation respectively. Mustapha further said: “The Project Steering Committee was established as the highest body with the responsibility of providing policy, institutional and operational guidance towards delivering on the identification vision and promise of the Strategic Roadmap.” He charged members of the committee to positively steer the project to accomplish government’s objectives, consolidate efforts to date and deliver goals outlined in the strategic roadmap. The SGF listed members of the steering committee, which was approved by President Muhammadu Buhari, as follows: Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, Chairman; Hon. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, Alternate Chairman/Member; Hon. Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation (HAGF), Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN, Member; Hon. Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, Member; Hon. Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, Member; Hon. Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, Member; Hon. Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Pantami, Member; Director-General, National Orientation Agency, Dr. Garba Abari, Member and the Director-General of NIMC, Aliyu Aziz, who is Member/Secretary. The work of the steering committee shall be guided by the following Terms of Reference as approved by President Buhari: Review the legal and regulatory framework for digital identity development; implement the strategic roadmap; utilise foundational identity to access services; determine the location of the Ecosystem Strategic Unit; and receive the report on the implementation through the DG NIMC and provide necessary guidance and approval. Head, Corporate Communications at NIMC, Mr. Kayode Adegoke said the inauguration, which was witnessed by the World Bank Team led by the Country Director for Nigeria, Shubham Chaudhuri, also had in attendance, the Permanent Secretary, Political and Economic Affairs, in the Office of the SGF, Mr. Andrew David Adejoh.