By Ibrahim Oyewale Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello yesterday paid his last respect to the state’s Chief Judge, Justice Nasiru Ajana who passed on earlier yesterday. He died at an COVID-19 isolation centre in Abuja yesterday morning, and has been buried. The Cable reported that Bello temporarily set aside his differences with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to attend the burial at Gudu, Abuja. He had been at loggerheads with the NCDC, arguing that there is no single COVID-19 case in Kogi. But the interment of the monarch was conducted in compliance with the COVID-19 burial protocol set by the NCDC. Ajanah, who was buried at the COVID-19 section of the cemetery, was brought to the Gwagwalada isolation centre, Abuja, from Kogi State early June after showing signs consistent with COVID-19 symptoms. Meanwhile, Bello has also commiserated with the immediate family of the late Chief Judge. This was contained in a statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor , Mr. Mohammed Onogwu, which was made available to journalists in Lokoja, the state capital. Bello was at the Gudu Cemetery in Abuja to witness the burial rites of the late Chief Judge who died at age of 64. The governor was accompanied with some of his aides including the State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Mohammed Ibrahim (SAN); Commissioner for Health, Dr. Saka Audu and others. The thanked the sons and daughters of the state resident in Abuja for sympathising with the family members of the late legal luminary during their trying moment. Bello had earlier in his condolence message described the late Chief Judge as a legal icon who stood for the cause of justice and defended the rule of law while doing his best to smoothen collaboration between the executive and judicial arms of governments as the State’s Chief Judge. He noted that the late Chief Judge had also served at the national level in several capacities meritoriously. Bello described Ajana as a fearless judge who was renowned for demanding discipline in his court and delivering thorough and sound judgments. The governor noted that Kogi State has lost a legal luminary who bestrode the heights of his chosen profession like a colossus and cast his shadow far beyond the confines of the state. Bello condole the immediate family of the late Chief Judge and the state’s judiciary over the irreparable loss. He prayed God to grant the soul of the deceased Aljanna fidaus and fortitude for his family to bear the irreparable loss.