Vanessa Obioha writes that MultiChoice Nigeria has been unwavering in its commitment to provide entertainment to its numerous subscribers despite the strains of the coronavirus pandemic on the creative sector In the past few months, MultiChoice Nigeria has been churning out content to entertain viewers at home as the world grapples with the new realities of Covid-19. From new reality TV shows to music shows, the company has shown unwavering commitment to keeping customers happy at a time when happy moments can only be shared from a distance. No doubt, the coronavirus pandemic did not spare the creative industry in its rampage. It forced the industry which is one of the employers of labour in the country to shut down, crippling activities, but most importantly, it deprived people of glorious moments of celebrations. Weekends which are usually reserved for parties and clubbing are now spent indoors. Even as the country takes cautious steps to reopen the economy, there is no indication that the creative industry which thrives on social gathering and audience participation will bounce back immediately. Moreso, with the need for social distancing constantly drummed as a way of curbing the spread of the capricious coronavirus, it will take a while before people can gather together to share moments, clink glasses and sweat on the dance floor. Notwithstanding, the leading entertainment company which pledged N400 million to creatives affected by the pandemic developed new ways to make people enjoy a bit of normalcy in an abnormal world. One of such ways is ‘Turn up Friday With Pepsi’. The TV show is curated as a DJ Jam session where viewers who miss the clubbing scene can tune in and be entertained by the in-house DJ. The show which began airing on May 15 is hosted by the popular hypeman Do2dtun. The On-Air Personality brings his energy to the screen, encouraging viewers to send their song requests as well as video clips of them dancing to tunes from the DJ’s turntable. In partnership with Pepsi, the Africa Magic’s special music programme is uniquely styled to accommodate various segments that will keep viewers thrilled throughout the over three hours broadcast. There is the DJ Battle where selected DJs show their skills on the wheels of steel. The Trivia competition involves viewers answering questions on the show via social media. Perhaps, the segment that sees the most participation is the Dance Video competition which allows viewers to send videos of them dancing to the show and it is displayed for all to see. Held every Saturday, the show so far has seen some of the bigwigs DJs like DJ Neptune bring the music party to subscribers. “As Nigerians spend more time at home amid the pandemic, ‘Turn Up Friday with Pepsi’ brings DJ music party to everyone right in their living rooms and Africa Magic remains at the forefront of giving them a great time of fun and excitement. We consistently look for innovative ways to thrill and entertain our viewers,” says Africa Magic’s Channel Director, Wangi Mba-Uzoukwu. Indeed, the video entertainment company is constantly looking for innovating ways to bring little joy closer to home for viewers. It recently partnered with Indomie Noodles to offer its numerous customers an authentic African experience TV show ‘Indomie Owambe Saturday’. As the name suggests, the show is targeted at occasion revelers and music lovers who no longer attend ceremonies because of Covid-19. The show, which officially launched on May 30, is hosted by awarding-winning radio host and actor, Steve Onu, popularly known as Yaw. ‘Indomie Owambe Saturday’ is to party goers what ‘Turn Up with Pepsi’ is to clubbers. The show deals more with live entertainment, featuring local live bands such as the Rockers Band, DeEagle Band and D Kencords Band. The three-hour long show according to Mba-Uzoukwu sets the stage in the living rooms for viewers to groove to the best of live bands every Saturday night. Each show comes with a unique package and with a lively host like Yaw, viewers are guaranteed of a fun and entertaining show. Also, viewers have the opportunity to share video clips of their dancing via social media. With these two brand new shows, MultiChoice Nigeria arguably retains its spot as the number one provider of entertainment in the country. Above all, it shows the company’s commitment to keep the sector bubbling despite the strains of Covid-19 in the economy. Viewers can catch ‘Turn Up with Pepsi’ and ‘Indomie Owambe Saturday’ on Africa Magic Urban (DStv ch. 153) and Africa Magic Family (DStv ch. 154 & GOtv ch. 2) at 9:30pm on Fridays, and 8:30pm Saturdays respectively.