By Chuks Okocha The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party Prince Uche Secondus has told the Governor of Edo state Godwin Obaseki to see his entry into the PDP as an act of God, adding that this should guide his attitude in the party. Prince Secondus told the governor that he would soon realize that he did not make mistake in his decision as this is a party of “responsible people who respect and appreciate intellect and work by the rules and constitution of the party. “There is nothing to be arrogant about power for anyone who knows God and here in PDP we are guided by this fact,” he said. The National Chairman who received the new member at the National Working Committee meeting at the party’s legacy House campaign office in Maitama Abuja announced to him that before his arrival they deliberated and approved his application for waiver for him and his deputy. Secondus said as a party that was guided by rules, the application came from his ward in Edo state and was recommended and endorsed by the other various organs of the party in the state. A statement from the National Chairman’s media office said he told the governor that by the waiver he and his deputy can vote and be voted for in the party. In his remarks after receiving the waiver, Governor Obaseki thanked God for providing him the opportunity of today saying that he is happy to have made this decision. He said, “From what I saw in Benin City today after I joined this party, the increased goodwill, the excitement of the people from all works of life from their balcony, I told myself no wonder…? He said that since he made his contact with the party he has realised the difference, he met true democrats with positive disposition and cohesion who listen and try to understand you. “What I have seen here is a far cry from the confusion and commotion from the other side and left me to wonder Why I didn’t have this opportunity before now “When I met the National Chairman Prince Secondus, I was shocked at his humility and unassuming dispositions, how he told me he would consult because the decision will come from my people not him but where I am coming from, the other side, it wasn’t so.” Governor Obaseki assured the PDP leaders of his full cooperation, adding “What am I bringing? I am coming with freshness, I am going to lead a campaign at all levels to enhance the membership of this party in the state. The governor told the party leaders that the challenge ahead for the country is worrisome following the effect of COVID-19 that has disrupted the socio-political and economic live of the world. “The road ahead is not going to be easy with the obvious fall in oil revenue which our economy depends on but I want to assure you that with me you have an equipped person with the energy. “ Meanwhile, the PDP Governors’ Forum has also expressed joy over Obaseki’s defection to the party. In a statement by the Director General of the PDP Governors Forum, C. I. D Maduabum, the PDP governors said, “we welcome you to the PDP Governors’ Forum under the leadership of His Excellency, Rt. Hon Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, and all other PDP Governors in the Forum. “Your entry into the PDP family is a homecoming to a democratic platform that accommodates all Nigerians desirous of good governance, accountability and deepening of democratic tenets. “The PDP governors welcome you to use the PDP as a vehicle to enthrone rapid economic, social and infrastructural development of Edo State. “As you subject yourself to the forthcoming primaries of the party, we wish you success and God’s blessings and guidance. The Forum extends the solidarity and support of your colleagues to you and all of your teeming followers into the party and assures you all of accommodation and level playing field.”