By Deji Elumoye Prominent businessman and philanthropist, Sir Emeka Offor, has donated 100 hospital beds as well as medical equipment worth $380,000 to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital (UITH) as part of his contribution towards the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic as well as the promotion of primary health care system in the country. Offor who made the donation at the weekend through his foundation, Sir Emeka Offor Foundation, stated that he donated the hospital beds as part of his Foundation’s contribution to the hospital to mitigate the challenges of COVID-19 pandemic. The Foundation also donated $380,000 worth of medical equipment to the management of the hospital to strengthen the health care programme in the tertiary hospital. Speaking while presenting the 40-feet high container load of medical equipment to the Chief Medical Director of the hospital, Professor Abdullahi Yussuf, Offor Foundation which was represented by its Chief of Staff, AIG Chris Ezike (rtd), declared that its partner, Savannah Center for Diplomacy, Democracy and Development (SCDDD) nominated UITH as a beneficiary of the medical equipment distribution programme, emphasising that the consignment is not to be sold, resold or exchanged for profit or gain. The Chief of staff noted that the Public Health Consultant of the Foundation, Dr. Tanko Yakasai, would soon commence post donation visits to the hospital with a view to ensuring compliance with the rules of corporate governance on the facilities. According to Ezike, the donation of the medical equipment was in line with the foundation’s core vision of improving the quality of life of Africans by supporting health and educational interventions. He also stressed the Foundation’s commitment towards bridging the gap that exists in the African developmental hemisphere by promoting qualitative education and public health. Also commenting on the donation, a member of the National Assembly, Senator Ifeanyi Ubah, lauded the philanthropic activities of Offor through his Foundation saying the businessman is one of his constituents that he is proud of. Ubah, representing Anambra South Senatorial District and the only Young Progressives Party (YPP) Senator in the Ninth Assembly, said: “Emeka Ofor is from my constituency & he has been doing very well for Anambra people in these past years. “So now that he is taking his philanthropic gestures across the country, I want to wish him well and pray that God helps him to sustain such good works for our people”.