Goddy Egene The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) has inaugurated three Committees as a strategic move to strengthen its internal structure for optimal performance and growth. The standing Committee, Advocacy and Policy and the two interim, Review of CIS Membership Regulations and Code of Conduct 2005 and Governance and Establishment were inaugurated to focus on three broad areas. They are: brand positioning of the institute through sustained awareness creation of its activities, ensure members‘ adherence to ethical codes and review of operations and processes for global competitive edge. A statement from the Institute indicates that members of the committees cut across top class professionals in various sectors which are relevant to achieving its corporate vision. “ One of the cardinal objectives of the Institute is to devote more energy, resources and creativity to advocacy with the ultimate aim of elevating the status of the Institute and Securities and Investment profession in the scheme of things. This will enhance creation of more awareness of the Institute’s activities. “The Institute is undergoing rapid changes. In order to position it for the current realities and the dynamism of the operating environment there is a need for constant review of its operations and processes. The Governance and Establishment Committee was formed to achieve this objective.“, according to the statement. Speaking on the development, President of CIS, Mr. Olatunde Amolegbe, advised the committees’ members to assist in the collective efforts to re-position the institute for enhanced growth and development in the face of challenges of COVID-19 and the need to rejig corporate strategy. “ We need to change the physical structure, systems and processes of the institute to match the evolving external environment and policies and as such, the Ad-Hoc Committee on Governance and Establishment is to work in this direction to take the institute to the 21st century (the desired position.