After a miserable three years at Arsenal where he failed to don the Gunners colours, but rather spent time with MVV Maastricht (twice), VVV Venlo and FC Porto B. Kelechi Nwakali, however, has cause to smile after starring for his new club SD Huesca which was delayed by Visa issues and Coronavirus pandemic. The Nigerian international has promised to help take the Segunda Division side to the elite division of the Spanish League-La Liga Kelechi Nwakali is a happy man again. The Nigerian international is delighted to return to action and has set a target of helping his side secure a place in the Spanish top-flight League-La Liga. Nwakali has stated he was committed to helping Segunda Division side Huesca secure promotion to La Liga at the end of this season. The midfielder joined the Oscenses last summer from Premier League side Arsenal, where he failed to play a single game for the Emirates Stadium outfit. The midfielder featured for MVV Maastricht, VVV-Venlo, MVV Maastricht and Porto B on loan during his three-year stay with the Gunners. The Nigerian international could only make his debut for the Spanish division side on June 18 against Mirandes owing to visa issues and the outbreak of Coronavirus across the globe. Huesca are already in the playoff spot after securing 54 points from 34 games, following 16 wins, six draws and 12 losses. The 22-year-old, who has made two appearances for the Oscenses, has promised to give his best to ensure his side secures promotion to the Spanish top-flight. “I’m excited to be playing competitive football again. I have waited so long for this moment and I’m fully committed to helping the club achieve promotion,” Nwakali told AOI. “The aim is to pick one of the automatic promotion tickets; we have a big game tomorrow against league leaders Cadiz. “It won’t be an easy match but the entire squad is very committed to ensuring we get back to winning ways.” Nwakali was an unused substitute in Huesca 1-1 draw against Segunda Division leaders Cadiz on Wednesday. Nwakali put up an impressive performance in his side’s 1-2 home loss penultimate Thursday at the Estadio El Alcoraz after he was introduced in the 83rd minute of the game to replace Sergio Gomez and the player recorded a commanding performance with his stats clearly distinguishing the former U-23 Eagles star. He completed five out of his seven passes with 83.3 per cent pass accuracy, three successful dribbles, 11 touches and overall 6.2 ratings. Nwakali asserted confidence in the few minutes he held the ball, leaving questions why he was not introduced earlier. The midfielder burst into the limelight in the 2015 U-17 World Cup where helped he Nigeria win the title, scooping the Golden Ball award of the tournament in the process. Besides representing Nigeria at the U-17 level, he has also played for the U-20 side and currently has one cap for the Super Eagles. Nwakali will hope to play more prominently for his club in order to boost his chances with the three-time African champions. It would be recalled that when Spanish news outfit, Dairo AS broke the story last year that Arsenal have sent Nwakali to Spanish Segunda División club SD Huesca, the brother to the Arsenal midfielder was quick to say Nwakali was not closing in on an Arsenal exit despite media speculation and was not on the verge of joining SD Huesca contrary to reports. The once-capped Nigerian international never played a senior game for the Gunners, but tasted some first-team action during loan spells away from the club. In his short career, Nwakali spent time with MVV Maastricht (twice), VVV Venlo and FC Porto B. He has racked up a total of 80 career appearances so far. But his future at Arsenal looks bleak. Born on June 5, 1998, Nwakali started his areer at the Diamond Football Academy and after his performances at 2015 FIFA U-17 World Cup, in which he won the Golden Ball Award, he signed with English Premier League side, Arsenal. On September 2016 it was announced that Nwakali had signed for Eerste Divisie side, MVV Maastrcht on loan for the season. He then made his professional debut for the side the same day against Jong Ajax when he came on as a 92nd-minute substitute for Thomas Verheijdt as MVV won 1–0. In August 2017, Nwakali joined Dutch side, VVV-Venlo on loan for the first six months of the season. After the initial six-month loan deal expired, he elected to leave Venlo and return to MVV Maastricht for the second half of the season. Nwakali returned to Maastricht on loan for the second half of the 2017-18 Eerste Divisie season, having played just 380 minutes of Eredivisie football with Venlo. He was named to the provisional squad for the Nigeria U-17 side before the 2013 FIFA U-17 World Cup but did not make the final squad. However, coming into the 2015 edition of the tournament he was named captain as he led his country to the title, winning the Golden Ball Award along the way. The Gunners paid more than three million euros to sign Nwakali from Diamond Academy in the summer of 2016. However, the midfielder has not played competitively for their teams because of a work permit obstacle.