By Ferdinand Ekechukwu Renowned filmmaker, Kunle Afolayan has unveiled a new production outfit called Kunle Afolayan Productions Hub. The KAP Hub is a new cultural centre where lots of creative ideas will be happening. The banker turned film director recently gave a virtual tour of his new production enterprise. Afolayan, whose parent company, Golden Effects Pictures, is involved in film production, documentaries, television commercials, music videos, film equipment rentals and film consultations, is breaking the Golden Effects Pictures brand into subsidiaries, offering specialised services under the name KAP Hub. The Hub will consist of, KAP Motion Pictures, a film and television academy, a cinema, Golden Effects Services Ltd, a restaurant and bar, live band, art and craft shops and a creative minds hangout. The film academy called KAP Film & Television Academy, is specially designed to provide hands-on experience from veteran and great film professionals with in-depth industry experience, exposure to diverse film making tools while being on the set of different movies, and for more people who are passionate about art, creativity, television, film and the new media. According to the film director, producer and actor, “This is an idea that I conceptualized years ago. After the establishment of my film company, Golden Effects Pictures in 2005, I decided to branch into other fields so I can really impact lives. Initially, Golden Effects Pictures was involved in the production of films, documentaries, television commercials, music videos, film equipment rentals and film consultations; but with my decision to go into other demanding areas in the film industry, I decided to expand Golden Effects Pictures into subsidiary brands offering specialized services under the name of KAP Hub. “We took a bank loan and this is the first time I am saying this officially and with the loan, we have managed to secure a property and have completed the first phase of the project. This project is going to have a film school and it is called KAP television film academy. There will be KAP cinema which will sit 100 to 120 guests.” The award-winning director of Figurine, Phone Swap, October 1 and The CEO, among others, is one of the new wave independent Nigerian filmmakers telling compelling stories that resonate with their “Pan-African” audiences. More recently, Afolayan wrapped up the shooting of his latest film, The Citation. The movie spans across three African countries with an international cast. It is currently in post-production. His movies have given the industry special recognitions abroad and presently he has the highest Nigerian movies showing on Netflix.