Amid the ongoing electioneering in the run-up to the September 19, 2020 governorship poll in Edo State, the state government has urged residents to abide by all health and safety precautions to check the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) in order to remain healthy and protect the elderly population. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, while addressing journalists in Benin City, noted that the aged accounts for over 50 per cent of deaths recorded in the state. Okundia charged the residents to intensify protective measures such as wearing of face masks, hand washing and observance of physical distancing to protect the aged who make up only five per cent of the state’s population. According to him, “Amid rising political activities and electioneering campaigns leading to the governorship election on September 19, we appeal to everyone to exercise caution and observe the regulatory guidelines for prevention of COVID-19. “Complying with these directives will imply that we care about ourselves and the wellbeing of others, especially the elderly, and are determined to protect them from getting infected by the deadly virus that has continued to claim thousands of lives globally.” Okundia, who expressed worry over the alarming spate of community spread of the virus, said: “Edo has now recorded a total of 2,414 confirmed cases, 11, 997 suspected cases and 100 deaths, while 2,131 persons have been discharged from various isolation centres in the state.” The commissioner reassured that contact tracing and line-listing activities were ongoing in all affected local government areas in the state, while active case search and Persons of Interest (POI) “Stay at home and observe all precautionary measures against the spread of the infectious disease, including regular hand washing with soap under running water and the use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers. Cover your mouth and nose properly when sneezing and/or coughing. “Two new toll-free lines for COVID-19 response have been introduced by Edo State Government to strengthen the initial lines from the State Ministry of Health and the World Health Organisation (WHO) distributed at the onset of the outbreak. If you have any COVID-19 symptoms, please call 08001235111 or 08002200110 for assistance,” Okundia advised.