Segun James in Lagos The Department of State Services (DSS) has invited the Co-Chair of National Consultative Front (NCFront), Alhaji Ghali Na’abba over an interview he granted Channels Television on Thursday on the plan of the movement to bring about a new Nigeria that works for all. The movement’s Head of Public Affairs Bureau, Dr. Tanko Yunusa made the disclosure in a statement yesterday, noting that the DSS had invited Na’abba, a former Speaker of the House of Representatives to report at its headquarters on Monday. On different platforms, Na’abba had accused President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) of turning Nigeria into a failed state. He had described the president as an irresponsive and incompetent leader in the history of the country. But in its statement yesterday, NCFront said the former speaker had decided to honour the DSS invitation on Monday by 12:00 p.m. The statement: “Please be notified that the DSS on Friday sent an invitation to Na’abba, after his very profound interview on Channels Television on Thursday in regard to the NCFront agenda to bring about a new Nigeria that works for all. “However, our leader, Ghali Umar Na’abba, has decided to honour the DSS invitation and therefore shall be visiting the DSS Headquarters in Abuja on Monday at 12noon. “All NCFront organs, structures and allies nationwide are by this notice put on the alert as eternal vigilance is the price of liberty,” the statement said. On July 1, a group of 30 eminent Nigerians formed a new political movement “aimed at driving reforms” in the country. In a communique issued in Abuja, the movement unveiled the name of the new platform as National Consultative Front. The movement added that its intervention “is aimed at providing a credible alternative political class and leadership for Nigeria as a result of the failures of past leaders of the country. “A new ideological mass movement shall be initiated to embark on immediate mass mobilisation of the nooks and crannies of the country for popular mass action towards political constitution reforms that are citizens-driven and process-led in engendering a new peoples’ constitution for a new Nigeria that can work for all. “The new movement shall also, without delay, mobilise for the economic wellbeing and prosperity of all Nigerians by demanding and ensuring that Chapter 2 of the present Constitution i.e. Fundamental Objectives & Directive Principles of State Policy becomes justiciable once and for all.”
The communique said the movement would also mount an articulate and vigorous campaign to deconstruct and reconstruct obnoxious election laws, which have provided leeway for opportunists in the corridor of power to subvert the will of the electorate making voting irrelevant in determining who actually becomes elected in Nigeria.
It said: “Our political coalition wishes to assert that the current factionalisation and imbroglio rocking dominant political parties in Nigeria as well as the heightening political tension in the country, especially within the Nigerian ruling class, have further given credence to our resolve and intervention to provide a credible alternative political class and leadership for Nigeria.
“Most of those who pride themselves as leaders of our country in the last twenty-one years of civil rule have proved to be huge failures and burden to the wellbeing of our people,” the communique said.