Peter Uzoho Marketers of cooking gas under the aegis of Nigerian Association of Liquefied Petroleum Gas Marketers (NALPGAM) and Rainoil Limited, have agreed to partner to promote the distribution and utilisation of the product in the country. The partnership was effected recently, when a delegation from Rainoil visited NALPGAM House in Lagos.
Rainoil made its entrance into the Nigerian Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) space with the launch of its 8000metric tons storage facility in Satellite Town, Lagos. Speaking to journalists on the sideline of the meeting, the LPG Manager, Rainoil Limited, Mr. Jude Nwaulune, said the visit was to see how Rainoil could synergise with the product marketers to get cooking gas to the end users.
Nwaulune said: “Last week, precisely Thursday, we commissioned our LPG facility at our Satellite Town depot, 8000 metric tons LPG Storage cacility. “Today, we are here to partner with NALPGAM, the umbrella body controlling LPG marketers in Nigeria. So we are to partner with them to promote the use of LPG in Nigeria. “At the moment, Rainoil has joined the league of LPG importers in the country. NALPGAM is made up of plant owners and we needed to do a synergy to see how we can be supplying products to them to spread across the grassroots, to get to the common man and to get to every nook and cranny of Nigeria.” Also speaking, the Chairman of NALPGAM Resource Centre, Mr. Basil Ogbuanu, said: “The management of Rainoil are visiting us today, and they have come for us to partner with them and also share information, considering the fact that NALPGA, in the segment of LPG distribution is in a very strategic segment. “We are the people that when you bring a vessel in the terminal, it is through the NALPGAM as plant owners that this product can get to the end users. “So they are new in the LPG but not in the industry as a whole, but LPG terminal. So they have come to partner with us so that we share ideas in terms of training, in terms of idea, so that’s why they here today.” Meanwhile, NALPGAM is establishing a one-stop-shop resource centre at its secretariat in Lagos, to serve as an information hub and training centre for members, investors and prospective workers in the LPG subsector. The Director General of the centre and Managing Director of Alpgam Energy Limited, Mr. Gbenga Falusi, explained that the centre was primarily aimed at bridging the knowledge gap and promoting safety in the industry. He explained that the centre would also serve as a rallying point for stakeholders and would-be investors to source valuable information that could help them in taking investment decisions and build their reservoir of knowledge in LPG. “The LPG sector requires training and re-training. You cannot just bring someone from the streets and engage him in the plant. These attitudes on the part of some investors are reasons why we record explosions that are avoidable,” Falusi said.