I remain VC, says Ogundipe By Uche Nnaike, Funmi Ogundare in Lagos and Kuni Tyessi in Abuja The Governing Council of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) has confirmed the removal of Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe as the Vice-Chancellor of the institution. But in a swift reaction, Ogundipe has described his purported sack from office as a figment of the imagination of those peddling the news, insisting that he remains the vice chancellor of the university. According to a statement signed by the Registrar and Secretary to Governing Council, Mr. Oladajo Azeez, the VC was removed at an emergency meeting of the council held yesterday, August 12, 2020. “The general public is hereby notified that at an emergency meeting held on Wednesday, August 12, 2020 and in accordance with the statutory powers vested in it by law, the Governing Council of the University of Lagos removed Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe from office as Vice-Chancellor of the university with immediate effect.” The statement said the decision was based on the council’s investigation of serious acts of wrongdoing, gross misconduct, financial recklessness and abuse of office against Ogundipe. However, Ogundipe in a statement he signed, has described his purported removal as the figment of the imagination of those peddling the news, insisting that he remains the vice-chancellor of the institution. “The attention of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) management has been drawn to the ‘Notice to the General Public on the Removal of the Vice Chancellor, University of Lagos’; dated August 12, 2020 and signed by Oladejo Azeez, Registrar and Secretary to Council, stating that the current Vice Chancellor, Professor Oluwatoyin T. Ogundipe has been removed from office with immediate effect. “This is untrue and a figment of his imagination. Therefore, stakeholders of UNILAG and the general public are advised to disregard this mischievous disinformation about the sitting Vice Chancellor of UNILAG, contained in that notice. Professor Ogundipe still remains UNILAG’s Vice-Chancellor.”