Michael Olugbode in Maiduguri The Borno State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Mohammed Aliyu, has paraded 45 suspects involved in terrorism, kidnapping, armed robbery, cattle rustling, fraud, theft and other crimes across the state. Aliyu told journalists yesterday in Maiduguri that one Mr. Goni Mallum of Muna Garage, Sheri area off Maiduguri, was arrested by the police on 11/03/20 for allegedly being a member of the Boko Haram terrorist group. He claimed that the Mallum confessed that his task as a member of the Boko Haram terrorists was supply essential commodities and other logistics to the sect. The items recovered from him included N200,000 cash meant for the purchase of foodstuff and other essential commodities for the terrorist group. The police commissioner, who was represented at the event by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP. Edet Okon, listed other items that were allegedly recovered from him to include five packets of seasoning cubes, two sachets of salt, 10 packets of sugar, five packets of sugar cube, one packet of Macaroni, one solar panel and solar power kits as well as two rolls of pasta spaghetti among others. He said that at about 20.00 hours on July 3, 2020, four suspects were arrested for allegedly kidnapping one Mr. Umara Garba of TimovaVillage in Askira/Uba Local Government Area of the state that later escaped while his kidnappers were asleep and reported the matter to the police. He added that Mr. Abba-KaKa Shehu was arrested for an alleged criminal intimidation and attempt to extort one N20 million from Mr. Bukar Maka. The suspect called and intimated the aforementioned that he was sent from Lagos to kidnap him. The police also said that Mr. Yusuf Augustine and Mr. Rufus James were arrested at Uba town of Askira/Uba Local Government Area for an alleged criminal intimidation and attempt to extort N1 million from one Mr. Nathan Janar. Others paraded for alleged kidnapping include Mr. Hammadu Abba, Mr. Isa Malam, Mr. Abdullahi Umar and Mr. Usman Manu while Mr. Ibrahim Garba, Mr. Adamu Ali, Mr. Abdulrahman Adamu, Mr. Musa Inusa, Mr. Hassan Wakil and Mr. Lawan Hamisu were allegedly arrested for robbing one Mr. Iliya Musa of N49,000 with dangerous weapons between July 3, 2020 and July 15, 2020. Others were also paraded for offenses that included cow rustling and fraud.