Head of Media Management and Public Relations at the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Mr. Sonny Aragba-Akpore, has retired from the Commission after attaining the retirement age of 60 years. Aragba-Akpore, who was a former Information and Communications Technology/News Editor at the Guardian Newspaper, worked at the Nigerian Communications Satellite Limited (NigComSat) before joining NCC in 2014. Speaking at the valedictory party held in his honour last Thursday, which was attended physically and virtually by staff of the Commission, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, appreciated the level of professionalism Aragba-Akpore brought to bear on his work at the Commission. Represented at the event by the Director, Projects, Abigail Sholanke, Danbatta commended Aragba-Akpore for using his many years of industry experience and knowledge as a media professional and corporate communication manager to create a robust relationship with both mainstream and online media stakeholders, which, he said, contributed significantly to the overall positive image and favourable public perception of NCC. “On behalf of the Board, Management and Staff of Commission, we wish you a successful retirement and fruitful engagements in your future endeavours,” Danbatta said. In his remarks, Director, Public Affairs Department, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, said: “Within the short time I worked with Mr. Aragba-Akpore, I found him to be a man of uncommon passion for his work.” He described him as a very committed and hardworking colleague, and wished him increased divine favour, as he retires from the services of the Commission. Responding, Aragba-Akpore expressed gratitude to the Management and Staff of the Commission for their support and cooperation during his service and for organising a befitting valedictory ceremony in his honour, saying he enjoyed working with the NCC. “This is one event I will not forget in a hurry. Indeed, I feel I am very lucky and singularly blessed and very appreciative of the privilege to work with a leading telecoms regulator like the NCC. For me, it is once-in-a-lifetime opportunity,” he said.