The Managing Director and CEO of Sujimoto Construction, a real estate company, Mr. Sijibomi Ogundele has extolled the leadership qualities of the Minister of State of the Federal Capital Territory, Dr. Ramatu Aliyu, describing her as a passionate administrator and example of quality leadership. Speaking during an interview after a meeting with the FCT Minister in Abuja, Ogundele said the minister pilots the development of a dynamic and growing capital city with a vision to transform Abuja into the best administrative capital in Africa. According him, it is true what they say that there is no force equal to a woman determined to make an impact in the lives of her people. “I have heard about the Minister’s strength of character. I finally got to meet her, she is indeed a great patriot and a true leader of the people.” The CEO, who expressed excitement to share in the minister’s vision, iterated readiness to partner the ministry for a renewed FCT Abuja. “Meeting with dedicated and hardworking professionals like Dr. Ramatu only incentivises the resolve of a wholly Nigerian luxury real estate and infrastructure investor like ours,” he added. Speaking further, Ogundele said the minister epitomises grace, vision and a ‘can do’ commitment that the country needs at this time. His words: “We spoke about numerous projects and subjects, from real-estate to the realities and difficulties facing our great nation; her passion for gender equality, empowerment, and her vision to turn Abuja into a small Dubai. The Sijimoto boss maintained that they would not be known as the capital of mass housing, when they can transform Abuja into the luxury capital of Africa. He emphasised, “The Sujimoto brand is well acquainted with luxury and would be glad to take on the challenge of working with the brilliant team at the Federal Capital Territory to promote the beauty of Nigeria’s administrative host.” However, Sujimoto is known for high in class luxury real estate assets boasting of some of the best in class accommodation for the very few who seek exclusive and well designed residential properties. Some of the well-known brands are LucreziaBySujimoto, LorenzoBySujimoto, GiulianoBySujimoto, and currently under development the LeonardoBySujimoto, amongst several others. Ogundele’s company has seen the development of numerous world-renowned and award-winning portfolio of luxury real estate and properties in highbrow areas like Banana Island, Lagos and other cities in the country, stated that the FCT Abuja might have given Sujimoto the green light to contribute to infrastructure development in Nigeria’s fast-developing federal capital city.