By Goddy Egene BUA last Friday sealed an agreement with Milleral of Turkey to build its newest flour milling plants in Nigeria with a total milling capacity of 2,400tonnes per day.
Upon completion in 2021, this will bring BUA’s total installed flour milling capacity to 4000tons per day. BUA currently operates an installed flour milling capacity of 1,600 tons per day and five lines of pasta of 720 tonnes per day. Speaking during the signing ceremony, Executive Chairman, BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu, said: “We are excited about this partnership with Milleral to develop our new state-of-the-art flour milling plants in Nigeria with a total milling capacity of 2,400tonnes per day bringing BUA’s total installed capacity to 4,000tons per day upon completion in 2021. This will further deepen our involvement in the foods processing sector as well as help enhance food security in Nigeria and the West African region.” Also commenting, Chairman, Milleral, Mustafa Ozdemir, said: “Milleral intends to bring its experience installing machinery and turnkey plants across the world to bear in building an efficient, advanced and world class facility for BUA.”
Upon completion, the new plant would position BUA as one of the leading players in Flour Milling in West Africa. BUA Foods is the agribusiness and foods processing division of BUA Group with diverse investments in the agricultural value chain in Sugar, Rice, Edible Oils, Flour Milling and Pasta. BUA currently operates an installed flour milling capacity of 1,600 tons per day and 5 lines of pasta of 720 tons per day
On its part, Milleral is a giant successful brand that has been manufacturing and installing machinery and turnkey plants for milling grains like wheat, corn, rye, oat to get flour and semolina for 27 years. Milleral offers products, plants and services that can appeal the necessities in all parts of the world; from Middle East to South East Asia, from South America to Africa and always continues to work with team spirit by developing innovative technologies needed by the global economy and manufactures its products perfectly according to customer demands.