By Bennett Oghifo Massilia Motors, sole distributor of Mitsubishi Motors in Nigeria, has officially unveiled the All-new Mitsubishi Pajero Sport SUV (Sports Utility Vehicle) in a first of its kind virtual car launch in Nigeria. The event was witnessed on YouTube by customers and other stakeholders who were shown the salient features of the 2020 Mitsubishi Pajero Sport SUV, and also taken on a 360° virtual tour, followed by a musical session. Managing Director of Massilia Motors/Country Delegate of CFAO Nigeria, Mr. Thomas Pelletier stated that the new Mitsubishi Pajero Sport is tough, reliable and comfortable. According to the MD, “it is a rugged vehicle, yet very comfortable. It is a proper 4×4, I had the opportunity to experience it here (Nigeria) during the rainy season. It has a comfortable suspension, powerful engine. It is simply rugged and smooth.” The MD added that Massilia Motors, in sustaining its tradition of quality after-sales services, has unveiled a Service plan, if broken down, would cost only N12,500 monthly for Mitsubishi customers. The new Mitsubishi Pajero Sport, comes with innovative features that are bound to be welcomed by the industry and eventual owners. The General Manager, Sales of Massilia Motors, Mr. Olatunji Itiola took the event host, Bolanle Olukanni (a celebrity TV host) on a demo of the new generation Pajero Sport, and demonstrated how to open the tailgate (booth) with just a leg motion. He said, “Even when your both hands are engaged with shopping bags, you need not worry as you only need a movement of the leg under the tailgate (booth) to open it.” Also coming as an irresistible new feature is the Smartphone-linked Display Audio (SLDA). This infotainment feature is easier to see with its 8 inch display screen. The SLDA enables satellite navigation i.e. Google maps on touchscreen via Android Auto or Apple CarPlay apps. During the launch, it was evident that Mitsubishi Motors has thought through improving driving pleasure and comfort in this 7-seater model with focus on driving comfort, roominess and intelligent and intuitive operations. Additional features of the fourth generation Pajero include an 8inch LCD coloured meter cluster, an upgrade of the Electronic Parking Brake, now coming with the Auto Hold function, the Forward Collision Mitigation System, Adaptive Cruise Control, Blind Spot Warning etc. The 3.0 litre V6 petrol engine comes with remarkable fuel economy and an 8-speed automatic transmission. The new Mitsubishi Pajero Sport is an All-Terrain champion, just as a Roof spoiler and shark fin antenna have also been added, with a variety of colours to choose from. The launch video is still available on the YouTube channel of Massilia Motors, and further details can be obtained via the website-Massilia Motors – Mitsubishi Nigeria or any of the company’s showrooms. Head of Marketing and Communication for Massilia Motors, Funmi Abiola explained that the current Mitsubishi Motors tag line- Drive Your Ambition- is meant to underscore the fact that Mitsubishi is a Customer-centric force in global mobility, enabling customers attain their ambitions. Massilia Motors is a joint venture of the CFAO group and the Chanrai group, uniting forces to offer ultimate customer satisfaction. Other Mitsubishi models available in Nigeria are ASX, Eclipse Cross, Pajero, Outlander and the L200 Pickup.