By Ugo Aliogo Grace Sports Channel (GSC) football club has unveiled two jerseys for home and away matches ahead of the 2020/2021 Surulere Regional league (SLR) Lagos State. Speaking at the unveiling ceremony, the Chairman of the club, Pastor, Mike Samako, said the club was preparing for the Surulere regional football club, adding that before the tournament there was need to unveil the football jerseys. He also stated that since the establishment of the club in 2016, there had been remarkable improvement, while noting that there was need to intensify efforts to achieve more success. “The club was setup to give young talents the visibility because we realised that most talented players don’t have the platform to realise their potential. We have young talents whose potential are not given the needed push, therefore they don’t have the right platform to express themselves. Football is capital intensive, what have kept us going is not the funding, but the passion and the desire of the management to take the club to greater height. For the scouting of young talents, we organise grassroots tournaments where we are able to secure skillful potential footballers. We have two sets of players-free age and U-17. In terms of playing in the regional league, we have greatly improved, in the last FA Cup, we were the underdogs, but we surprised everybody. But this time, there was great improvement in the tournament. We had two of our players travel to Turkey for football trials, but the constraint was their physique. But their talents and skills were appreciated. However, the club said they would invite the players again.” In his remarks, the Vice-Chairman, Surulere Regional League, Mr. Hamza Akeem, said the league has been in existence for eight years and it was rebranded to Surulere Regional league two years ago, “and the first season took off last year.” He also stated that the focus of the league is to give the players opportunity to play competitive football every week in order to help them understand what professional football better. Akeem explained that last season, the club played in an abridged style having 17 clubs in each group and 34 teams in total, then the first 10 teams made the league one.