By Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano Kano State Governor Mr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje on Thursday, backed the death sentence passed on a 22-year-old Aminu Yahaya Sharif, for blasphemy. Recall that the death sentence was passed on Sharif by a Judge of Kano Upper Shari’ah Court, Aliyu Kani on 10th of August 2020. The judgement was based on Section 382 (b) of Kano Shari’ah Penal Code of 2000. Speaking after a stakeholders’ meeting over the issue, Mr Ganduje noted that the convict was given a thirty-day grace to appeal the judgement, adding that the state government had no right to execute any decision within the stated period. “What happened is so important to the state and to the security of the state and the nation in general. What the Court did is absolutely right. And we support it completely. Such an irresponsible act, if not because of the state power, nobody could know what would happen in the future,” he said. “The man who did that, confessed to be a follower of a particular Islamic Sect. But the adherents of those Sect rejected him right away. So we need to understand the importance of this judgement. We are lucky that Scholars maintained that it wasn’t a case for a particular Sect, but rather of one who just decided to derail.” Ganduje said the state government had accepted the death sentence and the rule of law surrounding the case. “I will not waste time in signing the warrant for the execution of the man who blasphemed our Holy Prophet of Islam,” he assured. He also commended how the Court handled the case and commended all sections of the society for not fomenting trouble when the case was in the court, adding, “Our eyes are there following everything bit by bit. We thank Almighty Allah, that the court sitting went on successfully.” “Lawyers just told us that the case could go up to the Supreme Court. So if that happens, I will not waste time in approving the verdict right away. And the second issue is, if the victim did not take up the case to appellate courts, I will not waste time to give the approval for the execution. I will not take more than a few minutes to accept the verdict.” Also, representatives of the Islamic scholars addressed the gathering about why the judgement should be accepted and executed. The Chairman of the Council of Imams of Sheikh Muhammad Nasir Adam, Leader of Izalatul Bid’ah Wa’iqamatussunnah, Professor Abdullahi Saleh, Malam Usman Yusuf Makwarari and others, gave reasons why the judgement should be executed. Professor Ahmad Murtala from Bayero University, Kano, lent his voice to all those scholars who supported the execution of the singer. He hinted that accepting the judgement would strengthen courts in the state and would also mean respecting Kano people and their religious rights. The Muslim Lawyers Association (MULAN) Chairman Kano State Branch, Barrister Muhammad Sani Garba, revealed that their association would stand very firm behind the governor in approving the judgement.
He added that, even if the case goes to the Supreme Court, nothing could change. Also, the NBA Chairman Kano State Branch Barrister Aminu Sani Gadanya, said as an association, they collectively accepted the verdict of the Court, “Looking at the legal provisions followed by the Court. We are supporting this judgement 100 percent.” However, the Comptroller Nigeria Correctional Centre, Kano Alhaji Abdullahi Magaji , reminded all about other procedures to be followed before the judgement could be executed. “The Law gives the victim the right to take the matter to the High Court, to the Court of Appeal up to the Supreme Court, as just been said by the Chairman of NBA, Kano state.” The meeting was attended by the state Commissioner of Police, Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General, Director SSS, Controller Kano Correctional Service, Islamic clerics of different sects and lawyers, among others.