Francis Sardauna in Katsina In continuance of the military offensive operations to end the nefarious activities of bandits in the North-west region, troops of Operation Sahel Sanity have arrested 150 suspected bandits and neutralised many others in Zamfara and Katsina States. The suspected bandits, according to the Nigerian Army, were nabbed at an illegal mining site on Gadan Zaima-Zuru road in Bukuyyum Local Government Area of the state. The troops, acting on credible intelligence, also apprehended one Isuhu Ibrahim, a wanted notorious bandit who has been terrorising Wagini and other neighbouring villages of Batsari LGA of Katsina State. The acting Director of Defence, Media and Operations, Brig. General Benard Onyeuko, stated this yesterday when he briefed journalists at the Special Army Super Camp IV in Faskari LGA of the state. He said the troops, acting on intelligence, raided the illegal mining site and recovered 20 locally fabricated Dane guns and massacred one of the bandits who tried to escape. The defence spokesman added that preliminary investigation revealed that aside sabotaging the country’s economy, banditry is being financed through the illegal mining activities. According to him, “In continuation of their mandate, on August 23, 2020, troops conducted a well-coordinated intelligence-based operation leading to the raiding of an illegal mining site located along Gadan Zaima-Zuru Road in Bukuyyum LGA of Zamfara State, which also serve as bandits’ hideout. “During the operation, troops arrested 150 suspects and recovered 20 locally fabricated Dane guns. One of the suspects was neutralised while trying to escape. Preliminary investigation further reveals that aside sabotaging the country’s economy, banditry is being financed through these illegal mining activities.” He said the Nigerian soldiers also intercepted seven trucks conveying suspected rustled cattle on Jibia-Katsina and Gusau-Zaria Roads. Onyeuko reiterated that the arrested cattle and suspects have been handed over to Katsina State Police Command and Zamfara State Association of Rustled Animals for investigation.