By Ernest Chinwo Rivers State Governor, Mr. Nyesom Wike, has said Nigerians are fed up with the All Progressives Congress (APC) as it has failed the country on all fronts of its governance. Wike spoke yesterday when the state executive of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) paid him a courtesy visit at Government House in Port Harcourt. The governor recalled how the APC promised to solve most challenging national issues, insisting that the ruling party has continued to give excuses for their failure. “Nigeria is hoping for PDP; APC has failed Nigerians. This is no more time for promises. You have promised and you have failed. There is nothing to try again. “Nigerians have realised that it is better they stay with the PDP that has the interest of Nigeria at heart than a party that gives excuses everyday. “You know there are problems in Nigeria and you made promises, asking Nigerians to vote for you and for five years, nothing has changed,” he stated. He stated that he is focused on governance and delivering service to the people, adding it was no more time to play politics but to deliver on promises made to the people. He added: “It has never happened in the history of this country. Within one year, a state government will construct five flyovers at the same time. “In October last year, three flyover-projects were flagged-off and they will be completed this December, 2020. In July, we started expansion of Rumuola flyover and tomorrow, we will sign contract papers with Julius Berger Nigeria PLC for the GRA junction flyover, that includes the dualisation of Ezimgbu Link Road and Tombia Road extension.” He urged the party executives to show more love to the party by being loyal and committed. He stated that no State could say they are better off than Rivers State, adding that the state had successfully conducted its congresses without problems. He expressed optimism that there is nothing the APC can say to Rivers people today as the reason they should be voted for, insisting that both the federal government the the APC political appointees from the state have not done much for the state. “The money they have approved for us as refund has not been given to us. But I am not worried. I will continue to work. We have something we can show to Rivers people,” he said. Responding, the Rivers State Chairman of the PDP, Ambassador Desmond Akawor, said the party has passed a vote of confidence on the governor for the various people- oriented projects executed in the 23 local government areas of the state. He added that the governor’s swift response to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the state was commendable. He assured the governor that they would embark on aggressive membership drive and reconciliation of aggrieved members.