Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje yesterday said that the federal government alone cannot fight the anti-graft war if the state and local governments nationwide failed to domesticate the fight against corruption. He called for domestication of anti-graft war at the state and local government levels while inspecting the head office of the Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Commission currently being renovated. Ganduje, also, revealed that the state government had spent N5 billion to establish skill acquisition centres for youths in the state, saying over 400,000 youths have been trained in various skills in the last five years. The governor inspected the renovation work alongside the chairman of the anti-graft body, Mr. Muhyi Magaji whom he urged not to spare any members of his cabinet found wanting. Ganduje, who was caught on camera receiving large amounts of US Dollars in 2018, said the state and local governments should domestic fight against corruption if President Muhammadu Buhari’s anti-graft war would be effective. At the inspection, Ganduje acknowledged that anti-corruption “is an agenda of Buhari’s administration. With the way corruption is fighting back, the federal government “cannot fight corruption alone. There is a need to domesticate anti-graft war in the state and the local levels for it to succeed.” He, equally, charged the state’s anti-graft commission not to protect any government functionary found wanting of corrupt practice irrespective of his position or status in the state, even in the State Executive Council. Ganduje said: “Whosoever falls in the trap of the commission should face the consequence. I will have nothing to do with corrupt practices. I will never interfere with any case whosoever might be involved in the state.” Also during the inspection, Magaji, the chairman of the commission, commended Ganduje for his political will in the fight against corruption in the state. Magaji said: “It is your political will and support that has made this anti graft agency among the best in the country. We have set benchmarks in the country and are being emulated by other states.” During the 2020 International Youths Day celebration, the governor stated that youths in the state “have been trained in different skills including automobile technicians, carpentry, welding, tailoring and other vocational skills. “We have spent N5 billion in constructing the Dangote Ultra Modern Skills Acquisition Centre and have also trained 400,000 youths in various skills including automobile technicians, carpentry, tailoring, welding and others.” In his address, the Commissioner for Youths and Sports, Mr. Kabiru Lakwaya explained the importance of the day while also calling on the state government to adopt some resolutions reached during the fourth session of the Nigeria Youth Parliament that took place in December 2019 “The international youth day is set aside by the United Nations organization for collaborations with and among member nations, international and local development partners aimed at enhancing the socio-economic well being of youth that constitute over 60% of the world population. “A lot of resolutions were passed during the Kano sitting such as: the need for investment in youth capital development to harness youth empowerment and the Northeast Development Commission (NEDC) to engage the young generation in resolving the menace in that geopolitical zone of the country. “The need for the removal of the age limit as one of the requirements for job recruitment in Nigeria and the need to declare a state of emergency in education in Nigeria have also been deliberated upon. “This is precipitated by the Kano State initiative of providing free and compulsory education at primary and secondary school levels” he stated,” he said.