By Raheem Akingbolu Following the launch of a new bottle and the ‘Nduka’ campaign, Life Lager Beer has continued to spread its strong message of hope and resilience to consumers, this time with decorative lighting on the popular Niger Bridge. The lighting project which was unveiled recently was a new initiative from Life Lager Beer as a climax to the brand’s relaunch activities. As the coronavirus spread across Nigeria, Life Lager Beer launched the ‘Nduka’ campaign as a means of encouraging its consumers to keep hope alive even as they stay safe at home. The campaign theme which translates to “Life is Greater” saw Life Lager engage in a number of communication activities to pass its message of choosing life in these uncertain times creatively. With its new lighting initiative, Life Lager is now spreading the importance of resilience, and self-preservation as the words “Enjoy Life Responsibly” appear boldly on its new lighting construction along with other brand signages. The unveiling of the lights display which was done at an evening event, had in attendance the Governor of Anambra State, Willie Obiano, who referred to the initiative as a progressive one and used the opportunity to encourage everyone to keep following the right precautions to stay safe. Sales Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc., Uche Unigwe, also expressed delight at the launch of the new project stating that it was a significant work. He added that; “this project couldn’t have come at a better time and hopefully the message resonates with the brand’s consumers and inspires them to keep living right.” The choice of the Niger Bridge for this project was once again a testament to the brand’s attachment to its southeastern roots, as it remains unapologetic about demonstrating its belief in the industrious nature of the people and their steady drive for progress. Life Lager Beer was first produced in 1981 in Onitsha, Anambra State, as a regional Eastern beer and has since grown to become the biggest beer brand in Nigeria. Life Lager Beer is made from the choicest grains, hops and the purest waters, with the core brand belief that “Life is better when shared and when life is shared, there is progress”.