Rebecca Ejifoma Popular Nigeria veteran Journalist, PR Expert and Media Entrepreneur, Mr. Alex Nwankwo popularly called Alexreports has been nominated as a Distinguished Fellow Member of the Chartered Institute of Management and Leadership (ACIML) USA, as he becomes plus one today. He announced the significance of his birthday in a message he broadcast on his social media handles during the early hours of today, describing the 31st of August 2020 as the start of a brave new future. In the birthday messages of the multiple award winning PR Expert and Publisher of several mass media channels including the most rated Attention Magazine, he emphasised on the hopeful anticipations and expectations for the future, especially in achieving his dreams. He wrote, “Today marks the start of a brave new future filled with all that my dreams can hold. I look hopefully into the future to make those dreams come true because the beauty of life lies not in the length of days but I the use we make out of it. It’s indeed a new page in my life.” Nwankwo spoke euphorically on the grace of a new age, narrating the journey, the hurdles, the lessons and the foundational capacity achieved. He expressed gratitude to God for the grace, guidance and protection. His strides are: Nwankwo is the Chief Executive Officer of Amity Global Network, an organisation that focuses on public relations, publishing, journalism and showbiz. Some of the subsidiaries of Amity Global Network includes, Attention Magazine, State-Press Media, Abuja-Press, NollyTV Africa, Ndigbo Online, Most Beautiful Model in Nigeria-a pageant organization and Amity Printing Press. His organisation is presently in partnership with several multinational and national brands in Nigeria and across the globe. The renowned Media Guru has bagged over 80 distinguished and merited awards both on Nigeria and abroad. Nwankwo is a fellow and member of several international bodies and organisations including, Economic Communities of West African State-(ECOWAS) Youth Council, West Africa Fashion Council-WAFC, OSHAssociation UK, and the Federation of West Africa Freelance Journalist Association amongst others, and now listed for Chartered Institute of Management and Leadership-ACIML, USA.