Connect Nigeria, Nigeria’s information portal and business service provider, yesterday, announced its forthcoming annual event, the Connect Nigeria Business Fair, scheduled to hold on the 27th and 28th of August 2020. Managing Director, Connect Nigeria, Emeka Okafor, who made the announcement during a virtual meeting, said the annual event, which is expected to bring Africa’s most anticipated business event closer to the people, would also be a virtual event “We are bringing Africa’s most anticipated business event to you, anywhere you are. All you need is an internet-enabled device and you are connected from wherever you are in the world. 2020 Vision has been repackaged and it is going to be exciting, bigger, and better,” Okafor said. This is the 8th edition of the Connect Nigeria Business Fair and it provides a roadmap for business owners, both big and small to learn and thrive. According to Okafor, “There will be panel sessions with Titans of industry such as Toki Mabogunje, President of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Henrietta Onwuegbuzie of Lagos Business School, Tunde Coker of Rack Centre, Fela Durotoye of Gemstone Consulting, Ubong King of Protection Plus, representative of Allianz Insurance, Union Bank, Stanbic IBTC, First Bank, as well as Sigma Pensions. Also, there will be master-classes, networking, exhibitions from brands like logos.ng, Price Pally, and Lucy.NG and more. This is aimed at helping entrepreneurs to see clearly and encourage a holistic view of businesses in order to take considerate steps towards success.” Connect Nigeria is an advocate of building strong businesses and through her annual Business Fair, is on a mission to empower at least one million Nigerian businesses. Connect Nigeria is also known for promoting indigenous businesses through her annual SME campaign, Connect Nigeria Top 100 Emerging SMEs. CEO of Transferred Limited, Tolulope Oginni, who also featured in Forbes 30 under 30 2019 is a success story and an immense beneficiary after participating in the Connect Nigeria Business Fair. In partnership with Creno8, Dochase, Founders Institute, LBS, and LCCI, the event promises to be worth your the while and not to be missed. 2020 Vision is supported and sponsored by respected organisations namely Aiteo, NIRSAL, Allianz, First Bank, Union Bank, Carbon, Air France KLM, Stanbic IBTC, Sigma Pensions, Hot FM, Rave TV, and Page Financials. The event is free to attend but participants are expected to register via www.connectnigeria.com/bizfair/2020/register