Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Kwara State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday lauded the state governor, Alhaji AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, over the positive ratings of its employment status by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBC). The NBS at the weekend rolled out employment indices for the second quarter of 2020 (April-June). In the analysis, Kwara State unemployment rate slowed from 21.1 percent to 13.8 percent-one of the lowest in Nigeria. In a statement issued by its state Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Tajudeen Folaran Aro, and made available to journalists in Ilorin, he said the ratings clearly underscored the efforts of the state governor to reposition state for socio-economic growth. According to the statement, “These statistics again underscore the superlative performance of Governor AbdulRazaq, who continues to pull all the strings to improve the lot of the Kwara people. “We take cognisance of the fact that the low unemployment rate posted for Kwara State came at the height of COVID-19 lockdown when millions of jobs were lost in Nigeria and revenue was at an all-time low. “This was the time that the governor vigorously committed public resources to the fight against the pandemic with the strategic engagement of local people for production of face masks, hand sanitisers, supply of palliatives, unabated funding of road and school rehabilitation projects across the state, patronage for local contractors, engagement of hundreds of hands for the state social investment programmes, payment of soft loans to various categories of people in the informal (market) sector, and constant payment of salaries to government employees. He equally ensured that major firms remained in partial operation in strict compliance with the COVID-19 protocols. “All of these ensured minimal loss of jobs while rolling out micro-economic strategies to keep people productively engaged as well as tackle mass poverty.” The statement added: “We congratulate the governor for this feat, and urge him to remain focused in the task of stabilising the state for socioeconomic development.”