Popularly known in the cryptocurrencies business world as Bankroller Sammy, Egheghe Aisosa Samuel, the CEO of Roller Instant Trades is an ambitious and quite hard-working young entrepreneur who thrives on challenges and constantly set goals for himself. The Benin – Edo state born multiple business owner is determined to make a notable impact in cryptocurrency trading worldwide. Bemoaning on the the adverse effect COVID-19 pandemic on his Bitcoin business, the well respected entrepreneur says, “COVID-19 has had substantial impact on the Global economy and financial markets causing many business “small and large ” to shutdown. During the early stage of the virus, the scare affected digital currencies, making the value to fall. According to research, trading cryptocurrencies is not safe during this coronavirus pandemic. Traders no longer want to invest when they still haven’t recovered from the lost that occurred when the value fell. Apparently if traders don’t trade, there won’t be anyone selling bitcoins and when no one sells bitcoin there is no way Roller Instant trades will make money.” Born in December 9, 1994, Bankroller Sammy, an Alumni of Prime Institute of Technology also lists the lessons he had learned in his line of trade that would benefit greenhorns in Bitcoin business.
For him patience is the keyword, “And at the same time don’t be selfish. Know when to take profit, you can’t always make all the profit in one trade. Watch when the value is high enough sell out coin so you can get back into the market when it retrace back to a resistance level,” he added. However, Bankroller Sammy didn’t hesitate to hammer on the major disadvantages of running cryptocurrency business. He says, “One major disadvantage is Price volatility. It can be risky to invest in cryptocurrency without understanding its risk factors. You might purchase a certain amount of cryptocurrency and then the market runs against you, now you have to wait for it to either go back the the value at which you bought or you run at lost. The process of waiting, your money is on hold.”