Bennett Oghifo Jeva store, Nigeria’s one-stop online shopping platform, powered by Spherical System Limited is set to launch in Nigeria and has called on vendors in the country both wholesalers and retailers in various sectors to partner with the newly launched online shopping platform for advertisement and sales of their products. The online shopping platform which is set to officially launch in October is calling on vendors of various products; Home and Office Furniture, Automobiles, large and small home, and office appliances, Musical Instruments, Foods Stuffs & Perishable Items, Sporting equipment, Health & Beauty products, Stationaries, Electronic gadgets (Phones, Laptops, tablets and Computers), Fashion (Women, Men, and Kids), Baby Products (Apparel, Accessories, Diapering, Toys, Feeding, Bathing & Skin Care), Gaming (Play-station and Xbox), Supplements and Pharmaceuticals, Others (Toys, Games, Books, Pets Supplies, Spices), etc., to partner with the platform by advertising and selling their products to potential customers at the lowest commission rates in the country. Jeva store says it is committed to ensuring that vendors enjoy increased visibility for their products with nationwide market access and sell at the best rates possible. It has partnered with various delivery companies to ensure ease of product delivery from vendors to consumers, with 24/hours customer support and convenient product management while providing platforms for vendors to grow by organizing annual general meetings and seminars on how they can develop their business and products. Marvellous Odeode, the founder of Jeva Store, urged vendors in various states in the country to partner and sign up on the website www.jevastore.com so as to help grow the Nigerian e-commerce industry. He also stated that the platform is opened to both retailers and wholesalers of different products. He said: “We call on vendors across all sectors in Nigeria to partner with us on our platform which is aimed at providing a safer and faster online shopping experience for customers. We are also committed to ensuring that our vendor partners sell on our platforms at the lowest commission rates possible in the industry. To further show our commitment to our vendors we will be organizing annual general meetings and seminars which we believe will help us improve our business skills and also serve as a platform where we as an organization can listen and assist with whatever issues our vendors might encounter in the business”. He further explained that Jeva Store was created to fill all the gaps in the current e-commerce industry in Nigeria and the uniqueness of the organization lie in the seamless shopping experience customers get to enjoy on the platform. “Our range of service is designed to ensure optimum levels of convenience and customer satisfaction, these services include our lowest price guarantee, 7-day free return policy, order delivery-tracking, and dedicated customer service support,” he said. He also stated that as an organization, the success of its vendors and buyers equals the success of the organization. And the main goal of the organization is to become the number 1 e-commerce platform for all Nigerians to buy and sell. As the organization continues to expand the mall, its scope of offerings will increase in the variety of simplicity and convenience, so vendors are urged to partner and enjoy various increasing benefits.