Hammed Shittu in Ilorin As exit students commence the West African Senior School Certificate Examination in the country, principals and parents in Kwara State have been warned to shun any form of examination malpractice for students during the period. The government instead urged school authorities and parents to encourage students to prepare well for the examinations rather than look forward to a system that aids and abets cheating and that anyone caught will be made to face the full wrath of the law. The Commissioner for Education and Human Capital Development, Hajia Fatimoh Ahmed said this in Iloriin during a meeting of the All Nigeria Confederation of Principals of Secondary Schools (ANCOPSS), proprietors of private schools and the leadership of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) According to her, “as we all know, the examinations will start on August 17, 2020. You should all go back home and relay this warning to all your invigilators
“Secret invigilators and intelligent officers will be everywhere to ensure compliance. Not only that, anti-corruption agencies will be moving round without notice. “Anybody caught aiding and abetting examination malpractice or involved in any form of sharp practices will be punished according to the law of the land.”
Ahmed reminded the principals and parents that the AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq administration had to pay N30.5 million penalty imposed on the state following WAEC’s blacklist of 165 Kwara schools over rampant examination malpractices in 2019. The commissioner said the new administration would not condone such behaviour under its watch.
“The break occasioned by COVID-19 pandemic will not be an excuse to allow students to cheat during the forthcoming examinations,” she said, adding, “I know you are respected and responsible gentlemen and women who will not be ready to ruin your career for any amount. I therefore plead with you all to protect your names and the future of our children.”
The commissioner said “the administration is investing so much in education infrastructure and prompt payment of wages amid dwindling resources.”
She also announced that junior secondary three students would resume classes on Monday ahead of their own examination in September. She called for respect for all safety protocols to flatten the curve of the COVID-19 pandemic in the state.
Also speakimg, the state Chairman of ANCOPSS, Toyin Abdullahi, said the body would not be a party to examination malpractices and directed its members not to stay in their respective schools during the examinations.
“On no account should any principal stay in their schools during examinations. There will be no hidden place for principals aiding and abetting examination malpractices,” Abdullahi said. The President of the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools, Dr. Adetunji AbdulRahman said the incident of examination malpractice that occurred last year was embarrassing.
“We have told our people that we must nip the ugly incident in the bud. It will never repeat itself. We have organised ourselves into task force and engaged security agencies to also assist us,” AbdulRahman said.