Key roads within the Owerri municipality were inaugurated by Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State who said they would help to stimulate the economy and improve the life of the people. The roads include: Dualised Douglas Road (Emmanuel College to Bank Road Junction), Thomas Moore/JP Ajelu, Dozie Nwachukwu Road, Assumpta Cathedral to General Hospital Port Harcourt Road Junction, Aladinma Estate Roads, Archdeacon Dennis Road on Ikenegbu, among others. Inaugurating the roads, Governor Uzodimma said that though some of the roads were federal roads, they were nonetheless part of the integral programmes of the state government meant to stimulate Imo economy in the COVID-19 pandemic era and beyond. He said the roads were historical to their locations and were meant to restore the urban status of the areas where they were sited. The governor commended the contractors for delivering quality jobs and thanked the people living in the areas the roads were located for allowing conducive working environment for the contractors which helped in delivering the work on record time. He seized the opportunity to inspect several other on-going road projects, including canals, and promised that soon, most of the projects embarked upon by the State Government would be delivered appropriately. Chief Bob Njemanze who witnessed the ceremony recalled how the administration of Rochas Okorocha set out to destroy everything historical to the Owerri people, and said Governor Uzodimma may not know what he had done by not only completing the Douglas Road but pledging to rebuild the Eke Ukwu Market. In an interview with reporters after the occassion, former Minister of Labour and Productivity, Chief Emeka Wogu commended the efforts of the governor in delivering good governance to Imo people through infrastructural development in a very short period of his administration when other leaders are using COVID-19 to make excuses. Wogu said he was not surprised at what he observed going round Owerri on arrival from Abuja with the governor, and that having known Governor Uzodimma and his capabilities, adding that Imo people should expect more of such key quality projects that would enhance development in the first four years of the governor’s administration in Imo State. Earlier, the Parish Priest of St. Thomas Moore Catholic Parish at Area ‘E’ New Owerri, Monsignor Anthony Njoku, commended the Governor for a job well done and thanked God for raising a “messiah” today in the person of Governor Uzodimma to attend to the roads that have