By Kayode Fasua Secondary schools in Ogun State yesterday re-opened for final year students who would be writing the Senior Secondary Certificate Examination (SSCE) of the West African Examination Council (WAEC), with full compliance with the COVID-19 protocols. THISDAY checks revealed that excited SS III students in both public and private schools sauntered in, wearing facemasks, in preparation for their exit examination slated to commence on August 17, 2020. The Ogun State Governor, Mr. Dapo Abiodun, had on Monday relaxed a directive that the students must procure a COVID-19 negative test certificate before resuming, and offeredthat the state government would offset the cost of the test on compassionate grounds. It was observed in some schools in Abeokuta metropolis, the state capital, that sanitiser bottles and hand-washing basics dotted the entry points to the schools. At the Gateway Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Ita – Iyalode, Abeokuta, a bar soap and buckets filled with water for hand washing as well as hand sanitisers were stationed at the entrance gate where one of the teachers with an infrared thermometer was also screening all entrants into the school compound. Again, both teachers and students observed the social distancing rule during assemblies as well as in sitting arrangements for the lessons while students and teachers also wore uniformed facemasks provided by the state government. The Principal of the GSSS, Mr. St-John Afolabi, said his school had put in place a standard sick bay with qualified nurses to attend to any member f the school community. Afolabi further explained that students were distributed in batches of 15 per classrooms while buckets of water, soap and sanitisers were also placed strategically at the gate and at each of the corridors for hand washing. “You can see 97 out of 110 students, representing 90 per cent of the expected total students registered for the WAEC/SSC examination, have turned up and registered for resumption today. “This was made possible because of the unbroken channel of communication established immediately the pandemic broke out. “If per adventure, any student’s body temperature shoots up above the recommended gauge, such a student will be referred to the health officials at our sick bay, where we also have an isolation centre within the school here.