IG denies compelling mobile commanders to fund training college By Kingsley Nwezeh The Inspector General of Police (IG), Mr. Mohammed Adamu has approved the redeployment of police officers who were serving at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), to different commands across the country. This is coming as Adamu yesterday denied compelling mobile police commanders to raise millions of naira for the construction of a police training school in Nasarawa State, his home state. The IG had earlier recalled some officers attached to the anti-graft agency to ensure unhindered investigation of the suspended acting Chairman of the commission, Mr. Ibrahim Magu. Adamu had also ordered the withdrawal of policemen attached to Magu shortly after the probe into the EFCC began. In a memo dated August 4, 2020, the Force Secretary, Mr. Alkali Usman, said eight Chief Superintendents of Police (CSP) had been given new assignments. They are Abdullahi Lawal and Ibrahim Aliyu who were redeployed to Maiduguri, Borno State; Hamisu Dan-Usman and Umar Babangida to Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, while Mohammed Alkali was moved to Akure, Ondo State. Others include: Mailafia Yakubu posted to Awka, Anambra State, Denis Neanolue to Katsina and Abdullahi Mohammed to Interpol. He said the redeployment is with immediate effect. Meanwhile, Adamu yesterday denied ordering mobile commanders to raise millions of naira for the construction of a police training school in Nasarawa State. He said following the “malicious” publication, he had instructed the legal team of the police to initiate legal proceedings against the publication. A statement issued by the Force Headquarters said no mobile commander was at any time instructed to raise money for the police training school located in Endehu, Nasarawa State. Adamu further clarified that contrary to the said report, his home town was Lafia and not Endehu. “The establishment of the Police Mobile Training School in Endehu, Nasarawa State, North-central geopolitical zone of Nigeria was informed by overriding national security consideration on the need to strengthen the operational capacity of the special forces of the Nigeria Police Force. “Also, the insinuation that the IG sited the facility ‘in his hometown of Endehu in Nasarawa State”, is also utterly misleading. For the avoidance of doubts, Endehu is not the hometown of IG, Adamu. He is, in the contrary, from Lafia”, it said. The statement signed by Force PRO and Deputy Commissioner of Police, Frank Mba, said “the allegations that the IG used his office to threaten Mobile Police Commanders into generating millions of naira monthly through illegal means for the establishment of the institution is also totally false. “It is on record that the parcel of land where the institution was sited was donated to the police with the full complement of the Certificate of Occupancy which the Executive Governor of Nasarawa State publicly presented to the Nigeria Police”. The statement issued last night further noted that “the acquisition of the land was, therefore, without any financial commitment by the police. “Furthermore, the construction of the facility was achieved with the support of the Nasarawa State Government and well-meaning corporate bodies within the context of their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)”. The IG affirmed that in all instances the support so extended were not in cash but in form of donation of materials. “The only involvement of some squadron commanders was to ensure the delivery of some of the construction materials so donated by the corporate bodies. “Hence, the allegation that the IG ‘had each squadron commander cough out nothing less than N500,000 monthly for the purpose of erecting different structures in the training school’ is a preposterous and feeble attempt to discredit the innovative reasoning that engendered the successful implementation of the critical national security asset that the facility represents”. It said the construction of the project through corporate intervention was a demonstration of the commitment of the force leadership to meet its obligation to citizens in terms of their safety and security and in furtherance to the reform agenda of the Nigeria Police Force.