By James Emejo The former Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside, Wednesday said the issue of job creation must take the front burner within the tiers of government stressing that a productive generation of youth was critical to the development of any country. He said the government must commit to making more investments in youths to guarantee them a brighter future. In a statement to commemorate the 2020 International Youth Day themed: “Youth Engagement for Global Action”, he also tasked senior citizens to pay adequate attention to youth issues particularly education, job creation and moral standards. He said: “Education must remain a top priority if we are to make meaningful progress. More investments should be made in the education sector, especially as regards infrastructure, teachers, and curriculum that will turn our better-equipped students and graduates. “The issue of job creation must also occupy the front burner for various tiers of government as a productive generation of youth is critical to the development of a nation at all times.” He stressed that the government at various levels should lead the way in making investments on things that will place the youth in a vantage position to compete in a highly competitive society. The former federal legislator also called on youths to be more involved in the political power equation, arguing that such move could give them the platform to shape their future. Peterside however, noted that the youths had contributed immensely to the growth and development of Nigeria but that more is required to achieve greater success. According to him: “Nobody will give you power, I encourage the youth to stand up and fight for political power to enable them to be part of decision-making. The youth should engage their governments at all levels and seek greater participation in governance.” He commended the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration for initiating programmes and policies aimed at empowering the youths particular in the area of education, agriculture, small and medium enterprises, technology, among others.