Consumer Solution, Western Digital has unveiled the new WD brand, My Passport SSD, in capacities up to 2TB palm-sized drive to accelerate productivity and protect consumer’s valuable content without compromising style. With a sleek, compact metal design and blazing fast speeds powered by NVMe technology, the new palm-sized drive allows home and business users to save, access and protect the content that matters. The Vice President, Consumer Solutions, Western Digital, Susan Park said, “The new My Passport SSD delivers the speed, reliability and functionality consumers have come to expect from us.” “It is a powerful and sophisticated solution for the everyday content creators, curators and hobbyists who need to move files quickly,” Park described. The rounded corners, she continued, waving ridges and soft edges enhance the My Passport SSD’s portability and make it easy to carry, yet also distinctly recognizable as a member within WD’s award-winning My Passport product line-up. The VP, who argued that the drive is built for everyday creators, noted that consumers are looking to empower their productivity by keeping their files and increasingly large content libraries with them. In her words, “Creators can move and edit high-quality content nearly twice as fast with the new My Passport SSD compared to the previous version of the drive, saving time to do more.” Park assured consumers that whether on a laptop or desktop while at home, in the office or on the go, professionals can reliably store their data on this drive. Some of the features of My Passport SSD is that it is designed from the ground up to provide reliable performance and a touch of luxury, inside and out. The bold metal design is both stylish and durable. It feels great in the hand and fits comfortably in a bag or pocket, enabling consumers to bring their content wherever life takes them and keep productivity flowing. As hinted, Park said the drive is available in a range of modern colours, including gray, blue, red and gold, emphasising that consumers can choose the drive that best fits their style. Her words: “The new My Passport SSD offers the technical features users need and want, including: Blazing fast NVMe technology with read speeds of up to 1050MB/s1 and write speeds of up to 1000MB/s1.” The My Passport SSD is backed by a five-year limited warranty and is now available in the 500GB and 1TB capacities in gray worldwide at select e-tailers and retailers, with additional colours and capacities available later this year. The new drive, according to her, has a Manufacturer’s Suggested Retail Price (MSRP in USD) in the U.S. of $119.99/500GB and $189.99/1TB, respectively.