By Chuks Okocha The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South-east Friday announced that it has resolved the intractable leadership crisis in Anambra State, stating also that there would be no zoning in the election of the governorship candidate for the 2021 gubernatorial election. This is coming as the party said that it would commence sales of senatorial and House of Representatives forms for the bye-elections slated for October 31 between August 17 and 22. Addressing a pressing conference at the national secretariat of PDP, the National Vice Chairman for South-east, Austin Umahi, said that the state’s Working Committee headed by Ndubisi Nwobu is the duly elected and recognised Anambra State Working Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party. Umahi also charged the Anambra State executive committee : “You are by this NWC resolution directed to recognise and enter into official party business with the Anambra State Chapter through the State Working Committee as stated above.” Also, in another statement, the National Secretary of the PDP, Senator Umaru Ibrahim Tsauri, charged the Ndubuisi Nwobu to proceed to use all legal and official means to disband all parallel executive body, as such is illegal, null and void. The National Secretary of the PDP said that the National Working Committee (NWC), in her 502nd session of Wednesday, August 12, 2020 resolved to uphold the decision of the South East Zonal Working Committee of July 3rd 2020. On the forthcoming governorship election in the state by 2021, the national vice chairman said, “While reiterating that the PDP is not Zoning the Governorship, we wish to commend all the Gubernatorial Aspirants of our party in Anambra State, for their matured politicking, we bring them the assurances of our National Chairman of a level playing field and the conduct of a most transparent primaries.” He further said, “Coming to the issue of zoning, I want to tell you that we are resolute to recapture Anambra government house. I don’t know the zoning arrangement we are talking about but we are determined that credible candidate emerges with a free and fair primary, because the most important thing is to occupy the government house.” He charged all party faithful, as a demonstration of loyalty to the party, to withdraw forthwith all matters in the court, and avail themselves of internal conflict resolution mechanism and them that all complaints shall be adequately attended to timeously by the South East Zonal Leadership. The Southeast zone chairman of the PDP, said that he seize this opportunity to call on all fifth columnists within the party to toe the part of honour and join their paymasters in other parties, as PDP shall be prepared to enforce all disciplinary processes to smoke them out. He explained, “The days of merchandizing with Anambra PDP is over and done with because we are determined to take the party to winning side. Umahi specifically called on one Mr. Chukwudi Umeaba and all his co travellers to immediately close the illegal State party office, they opened in Awka, which contravenes section 58 of our Party’s constitution, embrace peace and partner with Hon Sir Ndubisi Nwobu to move the party forward in Anambra State. In that wise. “we affirm the expulsion of 3 officers of the party in Anambra State, as all constitutional processes were followed and presented to zonal working committee in her meeting with Anambra PDP Exco in our zonal office”, the vice national chairman stated . Meanwhile, the PDP said that it will on August 17 to 22 commence the sales of senatorial and House of Representatives bye-elecruons. INEC had earlier this week said that the bye-elections will take place in the following senatorial district and federal constituencies, , Bayelsa Central Senatorial District,, Bayelsa West Senatorial District. Nganzai State Constituency, Borno State, Bayo State Constituency, Borno State. Cross River North Senatorial District and the Obudu State Constituency, Cross River State Other bye-elections will take place in Imo North Senatorial District, Lagos East Senatorial District, Kosofe II State Constituency, Lagos State, Plateau South Senatorial District, Bakura State Constituency, Zamfara State and in Ibaji State Constituency, Kogi State According to a statement by the National Organising Secretary of the PDP, the sales of form will end August 22 as all completed forms should be returned to the party secretariat on August 23. The screening of all aspirants is expected to commence on August 25, while appeals would be heard on August 27.