By Vanessa Obioha As preparations for the grand opening of Spanish Kingdom Apartments and Suites in Owerri, Imo State gathers full steam, the management has rolled out safety measures for guests and other attendees. Speaking to the media through a virtual event, the CEO of the luxury hospitality facility, Onyeka Ogbatu, popularly known as Don Perry, stated that all guests are mandated to wear masks in and outside the hotel. “The havoc that the strange coronavirus has wrecked on the world cannot be overemphasized and the hospitality sector is among those badly hit by it. Being that we are in the business of serving and caring for people’s comfort, it is imperative to take our health seriously. Guests who will be attending our launch are required to wear masks and observe social distancing. There will be hand sanitisers in place and each guest will be checked thoroughly before accessing the venue,” he said. Located at Spanish Kingdom Avenue, along Owerri/Onitsha Road, the bespoke facility is the first hospitality venture of the Spanish Kingdom Group — a European based real estate and wine production conglomerate. The hotel offers visitors a touch of the Orient in its room decor, cuisine, and cabins. It has 22 royal rooms and a double duplex with five serviced luxury apartments, providing complete and pleasurably coziness with a range of services including VVIP guest cabins, domestic security escorts, and an extensive variety of other personalized services. The restaurant facilities offer a menu of local, western and oriental selections to both overnight and day visitors with a peculiar mama-put menu option for even more personalized alternatives. “We have come to change the narrative of hospitality in Owerri by bringing true professionalism to bear. This is why we insisted on the services of the Italian and Spanish trained hospitality consultant, Elvis Tasieobi of the Elvito-T Consult, who is specialized in recruitment and training of staff for efficient service delivery, to ensure that services at the new Spanish Kingdom Apartments and Suites will not be short of international standards for best practices,” said Ogbatu. Ogbatu expressed confidence that the grand launch, scheduled for Saturday, August 8, will be a spectacle for guests. “It is our way of saying to the world that hospitality is a lifestyle,” he concluded.