By John Shiklam The senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial Zone, Senator Uba Sani, has commended the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Dr. Samson Ayokunle, for visiting Kaduna State Governor Nasir el-Rufai over the killings in the southern part of the state. In a statement on Tuesday in Kaduna, Sani described the visit as a demonstration of true leadership and a step towards finding solutions to the crisis. He said the visit should help refocus attention on solutions to the killings in the state and lower the political temperature. He also expressed the hope that the visit will mark the beginning of a rapprochement between the people of Southern Kaduna and the state government towards forging a partnership that can bring the bandits to their knees. “The visit of the high-powered CAN delegation is heartwarming and strategic as the state government and security agencies step up efforts to end the banditry in Southern Kaduna and parts of the Kaduna Central. “The visit is a pointer to the fact that it is only through a collaborative effort that we can win the battle against banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery, cattle rustling and other crimes. “The visit was quite uplifting and statesmanlike. Such visit is what is expected of every true leader,” he said. Sani said further that all Nigerians are one people and must come together to rebuild confidence and chart the pathway to sustainable peace. He said this is the time for leaders to passionately appeal to the people to give peace a chance. Sani also described Governor el-Rufai as a “pan-Nigerian with zero tolerance for discrimination and high preference for inclusive governance”. He said the governor “cherishes the people of Southern Kaduna and indeed all the citizens of Kaduna State, and will do everything in his power to rebuild their trust and confidence in the sincerity and commitment of the government towards peace and security in the state. “It is my hope that the visit of the CAN national leadership will mark the beginning of a rapprochement between the people of Southern Kaduna and the state government so that a partnership can be forged to bring the bandits to their knees”. He said the special forces of the military have been deployed in Southern Kaduna, stressing the need for total support by the people to ensure that the mission is successful. According to him, “The Kaduna State government is totally committed to the restoration of peace and security in Southern Kaduna and the five affected local government areas in the Kaduna Central Senatorial zone.” He assured the people that he will continue to work closely with the state government and security agencies to bring the insecurity situation in the state to an end. “Our people have lost so much, their lives and livelihoods matter,” Sani said.