Sunday Ehigiator Access Bank Plc has commenced investigation to unravel the circumstances surrounding the fire incident that destroyed truck-laden with 33,000 litres of diesel and a stationary car at one of the branches in Victoria Island area of Lagos State. The Director-General of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr. Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, in a statement issued yesterday, confirmed that the fire incident claimed no life. According to him, “on arrival at the incident scene, it was observed that a fully-loaded 33,000 litres Diesel tanker registration Number: AKD 637 XP, and a car stationed beside it – AKD 234 FA were completely ravaged by the fire. “Investigation conducted at the scene revealed that the tanker was dispensing fuel for the generators in the bank premises and inadvertently caught fire. “A combined intervention of the emergency responders (LASEMA Response Team, Eko Hotel, LASG fire, UBA Fire Service and Federal fire), were able to arrest the fire and stop it from escalating further the building in the premises. “No loss of life recorded, damping down is ongoing,” he said. Reacting to the incident through a statement by the Access Bank’s Group Head, Corporate Communications, Mr. Amaechi Okobi, the bank said investigation was ongoing to ascertain the cause of the outbreak. “Investigations have commenced to determine the immediate cause of the fire. “Upon completion, the bank will establish updated protocols to avoid a recurrence of similar incidents. In line with our established safety protocols, all personnel (customers and staff) were immediately evacuated to safety. “The fire has now been extinguished and there were no casualties recorded.’ The bank also appreciated efforts of the Federal Fire Service, Lagos State Fire Service, Eko Hotels &Suites, LASEMA, Chevron Nigeria Limited, United Bank for Africa (UBA) PLC and Union Bank PLC, “for their support to ensure the fire outbreak was adequately controlled. “While the spread has been contained, customers in the vicinity of the incident who have a need to access our physical branches are advised to visit nearby branches at Adeola Odeku, Muri Okunola and Ajose Adeogun. “Alternatively, customers can make use of our digital channels, *901# and the AccessMore app,” the statement added.