By Seriki Adinoyi A conglomerate of churches of Christ in Nigeria, otherwise known as TEKAN, has asked the federal government and President Muhammadu Buhari to end the persistent clashes between the Jukun and Tiv speaking ethnic groups in Taraba State. This is even as the government has been urged to take immediate measures to stop the carnage in Southern Kaduna. In a communique issued and signed by its President, Rev. Caleb Ahima and General Secretary, Rev. Moses Ebuga, following its Executive Council meeting held in Jos, Plateau State weekend, TEKAN lamented that crises have consumed several lives in the wake of it. The 64 years Christian body with over 30 million members across 15 denominations observed that the president has not done enough to stop the increasing killing and banditry that have consumed innocent lives in the country. The communique reads in part: “Council calls on the federal government to give more attention to victims of insurgencies, bandits and kidnappers in Borno, Adamawa, Benue, Plateau, Katsina, Zamfara, Kaduna, Taraba, Yobe and many other parts of the nation. “TEKAN is worried that it has become easy for the authority and security agencies to go after critics of government and those speaking against the continuous killing of Nigerians but seemingly very weak and slow in handling the perpetrators. “We wonder why despite calls by the church, National Assembly, governors and concerned Nigerians for the complete overhaul of the Nigeria security apparatus, no action has been taken by President Muhammadu Buhari while the insecurity keeps increasing.” TEKAN called on the federal government, particularly the security agencies, to be more proactive, practical and visible in the war against insurgents, bandits, kidnappers, proliferation of fire arms and all forms of criminality in Nigeria. The churches also challenged the President Buhari-led government to be more responsive to the plight of Nigerians, even as they alleged that there is a high level of corruption. TEKAN also called on the government at all levels to take appropriate measures towards helping and managing the visible flood that is ravaging some of the communities across the country.