By Adedayo Akinwale As part of measures to cater for the interest of People Living with Disabilities (PLWDs), the less privileged and the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the country, the presidency has adopted a non speculative approach with the introduction of Basic Registry and Information System in Nigeria (BRISIN). BRISIN, it said, would be used as a powering instrument to build the Disability Databank for the people living with disability, less privileged and IDPs. The Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Disability Matters, Dr. Samuel Ankeli, while speaking at a press conference yesterday in Abuja, said there was need to know and identify everyone living with disabilities whereever they are. He added that planning and managing these group of citizens require getting close to them, knowing and understanding what their needs are and how to carry them along in applying social welfare system. Ankeli stated: “In Nigeria today, the reality and possibility to achieve Mr President’s intention would be futile if different but non speculative approach is not taken, so the introduction of Basic Registry and Information System in Nigeria (BRISIN) become the powering instrument to build the Disability Databank for the people living with disability, less privileged and IDPs.” He noted that the United Nations (UN) and other international agencies across the world had been finding it difficult to continue trusting and believing in what Nigeria gives as figures on these group of people in Nigeria, while President Buhari on many occasions had also criticised the figures attributed to Nigeria by these agencies. Ankeli said, “On the issues of disability, I felt that it is time for every one living with disability to be known and identified where ever they are, so that the government’s plan to carry PLWD along in the social development of Nigeria is achieved.” The Director of Corporate Affairs, BRISIN, Mr. Patrick Attah, explained that the data bank would capture all the people living with disability in the country, all the less privileged and IDPs with their biometrics starting with Federal Capital Territory (FCT) as pilot. He said there would be a disability databank structure together with skill acquisition centres at every Area Councils or LGAs for easy management and assistance to PLWDs and others. Attah therefore urged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), other governmental and non-governmental organisations, and individuals at home and abroad, to support the President’s humanitarian and good intention to reduce poverty among PLWDs and carry them along.