By Nseobong Okon-Ekong The Edo State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has pointed accusing fingers at Governor Godwin Obaseki and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for promoting religious tension ahead of the September 19 governorship election. The party frowned at the reaction of the PDP to the honorary Itsemakohna title (‘This is our Own’) conferred on Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu by the Otaru of Auchi, Alhaji Aliru Momoh, Ikelebe III. The opposition said the PDP’s uncomplementary remarks about the conferment was a slap on Christians and an attempt to introduce RUGA to Edo State.
APC Media Campaign Council chairman John Mayaki said PDP was insensitive to the cultural and religious diversities in the state. However, this did not go down well with Obaseki’s camp as his media aide, Mr. Crusoe Osagie insisted the PDP has promoted religious harmony in Edo more than the APC. Mayaki said in a statement that Auchi, which is in the northern part of Edo State, popularly called the Afemai or Afenmai region, is a predominantly Muslim area under the traditional leadership of the Otaru of Auchi, Alhaji Aliru Momoh, Ikelebe III. He said this fact has been respected by the people of Edo for a long time, adding that the state has been able to live in harmony despite these religious differences due to this mutual respect. Mayaki added:”The conferment of the Itsemakohna title on Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, as explained by the candidate himself, was a mark of honor indicative of his level of acceptance in all parts of Edo State. “His personal religion and position as a Pastor are not unknown to the Otaru who, indeed, refers and regards him as a Christian and ordained man of God. “The symbolic turbaning is not a religious ceremony, but a cultural one to show clearly that the people of Auchi no longer want Governor Obaseki and have embraced the APC candidate. “There are many reasons for the rejection of the embattled Governor, part of which includes his flagrant disrespect for tradition and well-known divisive tendencies, a fact which he and his party have now corroborated with the evil insinuations they introduced to the event, seeking to stoke religious tension in Edo State. The governor’s disrespect for tradition was apparent when he visited the palace of the Oba of Benin without the customary kolanut he should have carried and met a cold reception. His opponent, Pastor Ize-Iyamu, a more urbane and culturally conscious man, carried the kolanut on his visit and was met by a full regiment of powerful Benin chiefs who greeted him affectionately. Edo has been able to steer clear of the religious tension that the rejected PDP is trying to engender because other Governors and administrators before the sad emergence of Godwin Obaseki understood the plurality of the State like most Nigerian societies, and pursued peace and unity, not actively stoke tension with poor propaganda on the account of mindless politics. “Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu does not discriminate against people because of their religious beliefs. The faith he professes and teaches, as exemplified and instructed by Jesus Christ in the New Testament, kicks against divisive actions and preaches peaceful harmony. “Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu’s honorary title by the Otaru, an Islamic traditional ruler, is a powerful attestation to his ability to preside over the affairs of the state and its diverse people with the maturity, sensitivity, and fairness required to achieve social harmony and development.”