Lionel Messi’s father is already discussing terms with Manchester City, according to several reports. It was revealed on Tuesday night that the Barcelona captain wants to leave the LaLiga club this summer, after a disappointing season in Spain which resulted in no trophies. Several top European clubs have been placed on high-alert, including Pep Guardiola’s City and Paris Saint-Germain. And according to RAC1 and TyC Sports, Jorge Messi has already touched down in Manchester to discuss terms with the Premier League side. The reports say that the player’s father is discussing a two-year deal with City, though there are still question marks over whether the Premier League side will have to stump up a transfer fee for the Argentinian superstar. Messi believes that he can activate a clause in his contract which makes him a free agent at the end of a Barcelona season. However, Barcelona insist that the clause expired in June, which would mean either Messi or City would have to pay the player’s £630million release clause at the club. There is confusion over the clause as the 2019-20 end of season date, which would normally be in June, was pushed back until August due to the coronavirus hiatus in the middle of the campaign. If City do not have to pay the hefty release clause, then the Premier League side will still have to cover Messi’s extortionate salary, which could rise to £94million-a-year. Messi’s fixed salary totals £64m (€71m) but bonuses for signing, for staying, and for winning trophies takes the figure well above that. Just by playing 60 per cent of games until the 2021 date his contract ends sees Messi earn on average £95m (€106m) a season but the potential – if he were to win the treble and win FIFA’s player of the year award – exists to push the final figure over the £110m (€122m) mark. A move to Manchester City would see Messi reunite with ex-Barcelona coach Guardiola in England. The pair won three LaLiga titles, two Champions League trophies, two Copa del Reys and two Club World Cups with the Catalan club. Should Messi leave the Camp Nou this summer, his overall Barcelona record will stand at 634 goals in 763 matches. The 33-year-old has won ten Spanish top-flight trophies, four Champions Leagues and six FIFA Ballon D’Or awards. Meanwhile, Barcelona are still plan to build a team around Messi and are trying to convince him to stay, according to Sporting Director, Ramon Planes. “What’s happened has happened and our idea is to build a team around the most important player in the world,” said Planes. “We want to build another winning cycle led by the best player in the world, the best in history. “Barca and Leo are like a marriage, where both have given so much to each other, and have brought so much joy to the fans. I think the future is positive. I am an optimist.”