The Borno State Police Command, yesterday arrested 45 suspected criminals, including a Boko Haram’s logistics supplier. The 45-year-old suspect according to the state Police Public Relation Officer, Mr. Okon Edet, was arrested at Gamboru market within Maiduguri town with food supplies and other assorted products to be shipped to designated Boko Haram enclaves outside the metropolis. Okon disclosed that 10 suspected Armed Robbers, seven cattle rustlers, five fraudsters/extortioners, seven thieves, one terrorist and kidnappers were among the arrested suspects. His said: “The robbery suspects; Ibrahim Garba, Adamu Ali, Abdulrahaman Adamu, confessed guilty to have conspired to rob one Iliya Musa of N49,000 on July 3, 2020 “Musa Inusa at about 2330hours on April 18, 2020 robbed one Abdulkarim Unar of his tricycle while being transported to Modusuku in Biu local Government Area. The suspect repeatedly stabbed the rider before dispossessing him of his tricycle. “Hassan Wakili and Lawan Hamisu conspired to rob one Hassan Abdullahi of Bayo LGA of his motorcycle which he later sold to one Lawan Hamisu at the sum of N70,000. “Babangida Usman, Sani Ali, Waziri Ali, Umar Alhassan and Ali Mohammed were also arrested in connection to various robbery cases” Okon added; “On cattle rustling, Hashimu Lawali and Bukar Ahmadu were also arrested by the Police at Gubio LGA for rustling 31 cattles, after which the cows were found wandering around Diffa axis of Niger Republic, while Mohammed Ibrahim, Ibrahim Kabale and Mumuni Iggi were also arrested in possession of 8 rustled cows which were 19 in number from Cameroun. Unfortunately they succeeded and sold out 11 before they were napped. “Likewise, Zarami Mohammed, Musa Mohammed who specializes for stealing domestic animals values at N230, 000 in Chul, Askira Uba LGA, while ABBA Kaka Shehu who is a suspected fraudster was arrested for criminal intimidation and attempt to extort one Alhaji Bukar Mala of Twenty Million Naira. “On theft, Alhaji Mohammed Musa, (store keeper), Rabiu Ali (Head labourer), Usman Mohammed, Umaru Edward, Adamu Muazu, Umar Ibrahim and Yusuf Abdullahi (Receivers) were reported to the police on the July 20, 2020 at about 1807hours that the suspects being employed by Gramson Construction Company, a company contracted to construct Trauma Centre at the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH), conspired and stole various items worth N6.5 million, while Mohammed Mustapha and Hassan Umar were also apprehended, having broken into the office of the Borno State Geographical Information Service and made away with a 40 and 5o inches of Plasma TV, one HP Desktop computer, a stabilizer and a bag containing some documents. “Also arrested in connection terrorism is one Alhaji Goni Mallum Mutti of Muna Asheri area of Maiduguri for being a member of the Boko Haram group. The suspect confessed that he was saddled with the responsibility of supplying logistics and essentials to the sect. He was in possession of N200,000 cash, assorted foodstuff among other items.” The Police, however appealed to the general public to join hands with security in fight crime by reporting any suspicious Movement within their vicinity.