Oluchi Chibuzor The Management and Board of Nosak Group has announced the appointment of Mr. Thomas Oloriegbe as the new Group Managing Director (GMD). Oloriegbe’s appointment was announced in a statement by Nosak’s Office of Corporate Communication., According to the statement, Oloriegbe brings on board his wealth of experience and vast knowledge along with his exceptional track record of immense success in manufacturing operations. Speaking on Oloriegbe’s appointment, the Group Executive Chairman, Dr. Toni Ogunbor expressed confidence in the leadership style of Olorigebe, saying he looked forward to future contributions and growth of Nosak in his new role. As the new Group Managing Director, Oloriegbe will oversee the business operations of the Group while providing strategic guidance and direction for the various businesses. Also, he will be saddled with the responsibility of driving concerted efforts towards attaining the Group’s short and long-term goals. Prior to his appointment, Oloriegbe served in the capacity of the Group Chief Operating Officer (GCOO) for a period of four years, where he was responsible for coordinating administrative and operational functions of the various Strategic Business Units (SBUs). Described as a highly revered, seasoned consultant and project manager with over 21 years of work experience across Business Consulting, Mortgage Banking, and Real Estate Management, Oloriegbe is a graduate of Accounting, holds a Postgraduate Diploma in Management and a Master’s certificate in Business Administration. According to the statement: “He holds a certificate in Advanced Management from IESE University of Navarra, Barcelona, Spain. “He is a Fellow of the Certified Institute of Cost Management of Nigeria and an Alumnus of Lagos Business School. He is also a certified Management Trainer from the Center for Management Development (CMD) and a member of the Institute of Directors, Nigeria. “Oloriegbe has shown an enviable penchant for growth and personal development since joining the Group in 2008 as the General Manager of Grand Villas Limited where he rose to become the Chief Operating Officer of the SBU. He displayed excellent leadership, communication, and organizational skills in the position, culminating in his appointment as the Group Chief Operating Officer in 2016,” the statement stated.