By Kemi Olaitan Less than two weeks after the controversial escape of the suspected notorious serial killer, Sunday Shodipe, in Ibadan, the Oyo State Police Command Sunday announced the re-arrest of Shodipe accused of masterminding the series of ritual killings in Akinyele Local Government Area of the state. The command’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Olugbenga Fadeyi, a Superintendent of Police (SP), made the disclosure Sunday during a telephone interview. Shodipe, after confessing to some of the killings in Akinyele, when paraded recently at the police headquarters, Eleyele, escaped from the Mokola Station, Ibadan, where he was remanded after appearing before an Ibadan Magistrate’s Court on August 11. THISDAY however learnt that he was re-arrested at his grandma’s place at the Ojoo area of Ibadan. Scores of angry youths on Wednesday besieged the Eleyele Police Headquarters to register their grievances over the escape of the suspected serial killer from their custody . The angry youths displayed placards with various inscriptions querying how the suspect escaped from police custody, accusing police officers of been endemic in corrupt practices. Other groups have also threatened that they would lock down the police station at the Akinyele council area if the suspect was not re-arrested before September 2, 2020. Shodipe was arrested and paraded in connection with the murder of four women and a 10-year-old boy in the council area. But, the police, in a statement, explained that the suspect escaped when he was being led to the bathroom. The Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Police Command, Nwachukwu Enwonwu, who had ordered the arrest of his men connected with the escape of the suspect, calmed the aggrieved youths and reassured them of his readiness to track down the suspect and bring him to justice. He described the circumstances that led to the escape of the suspect as not only embarrassing, but saddening. The state police boss disclosed further that all the policemen on duty when the suspect escaped were already facing trial, assuring the youths that none of them would go unpunished.