By Ibrahim Shuaibu Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has given out the sum of N880, 942,432.38 million for the renovation of primary schools in all the 44 local government areas of the state. Each local government area in the state would be given N20 million through the Community Promotion Committee (CPC) to execute the renovation project. Speaking during the presentation of the cheque held at Sani Abacha Indoor Stadium in Kano yesterday, Ganduje said his administration has accorded utmost priority to education as the bedrock to societal development. According to the governor, his administration had provided a blueprint to finance education, some of which is the allocation of 26 percent of the annual budget of the state to education. He added that his administration had made sure that 5 percent of the state Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) is spent on education, adding that 5 percent of the statutory allocation of the local governments also goes to education financing, under the Education Trust Fund. Ganduje also revealed that 2 percent of each contract awarded in the state is expended on education with a view to improving its quality, aimed at moving the state forward. “After we introduced free and compulsory education policy from primary to junior secondary, we made sure that we built the policy on four aspects. “The aspects are: political will, education financing, strong institutions and community participation. At the institution, we made sure that we upgraded the Ministry of Education with seven or nine parastatals. “We also made sure that we encourage community participation. We are now presenting these pieces of cheque to all of the 44 local government chairmen. The money would go to CPC for the execution of the projects,” Ganduje stated. While charging the chairmen of the CPC to utilise the funds judiciously, the governor also directed them to finish the project within three weeks. Also speaking, the Chairman of State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Danlami Hayyo, said the gesture would improve the quality of primary education in the state. According to him, education requires high capital expenditure, disclosing that the administration of Ganduje has so far constructed 407 classrooms and renovated over 700 classes. He added that the state government had built 460 toilets in various schools across the state, adding that over 200 boreholes had been constructed in the schools.