•Board ratifies Ogunsola’s choice as interim VC Kuni Tyessi in Abuja The federal government has appointed the Chairman and CEO of Channels TV, Mr. John Momoh, as acting chairman of the governing council of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Lagos. Momoh performed his first assignment yesterday by presiding over a meeting of the council to ratify the election, by the UNILAG Senate, of Prof. Folasade Ogunsola as the acting vice-chancellor.
Momoh, who is the president of the institution’s alumni association, has been a member of the council representing the association. His appointment followed the suspension of Dr. Wale Babalakin (SAN) from the position over the leadership crisis in the university.
In a letter addressed to the ace broadcaster dated August 21, 2020, and signed by the Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Education, Mr. Sonny Echono, Momoh was directed to convene an emergency meeting of the council to “consider and, if found suitable, approve the Senate nomination of the acting Vice-Chancellor for University of Lagos, in line with the enabling Act.” The letter which is referenced; FME/PS/606/C.I/III/129, is titled; “Emergency Meeting of the Governing Council of University of Lagos.”
It reads in part: “You are to preside at the meeting in the absence of the substantive pro-chancellor/chairman of council who has had to recuse himself in line with the visitor’s directive. “You are to also submit a report on the decision of the council to the visitor through the honourable minister of education immediately thereafter.”
In compliance with the directive, the council yesterday ratified the appointment of Ogunsola as acting vice-chancellor.
Her appointment was ratified during a virtual meeting chaired by Momoh. Ogunsola was elected on Monday by the Senate following the federal government’s directive that the embattled Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe and Babalakin should step aside while the Special Visitation Panel it set up looks into the university’s affairs.