By Michael Olugbode The Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Garbai Elkanemi, has said that the people of Borno State now live in fear as the state is no longer safe. The paramount ruler said this following the attack on Borno State governor’s convoy in Baga last Wednesday and the mortal attack on Maiduguri where six persons were officially declared killed and 27 injured on the eve of Eid-el-Kabir festival. The governor, who had come out to allege that the attack on his convoy was due to sabotage by the military, was on a visit to Baga to distribute palliatives to internally displaced persons in the area. The governor, who left Maiduguri on Monday afternoon and had already visited some part of the state, was made to spend a night in Monguno and later returned to the state capital following the attack. The Shehu, who also called for something urgently to be done to secure the lives and property of the people and bring reassure them of their safety, said this when he paid the traditional sallah homage on the governor at the Government House. The Shehu, during his homage on the governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, said: “Your Excellency, we are not happy about what happened in Baga the other time, it is very unfortunate and great pity. If the convoy of the whole Chief Security Officer of the state will be attacked, then wallahi nobody is safe, because he is the number one citizen of the state, he is the Chief Security Officer of the State. “If a convoy of such highly placed person in the state will be attacked, I repeat, nobody is safe. The matter is getting worse, I urge everyone to raise up our hands to seek for Allah’s intervention.” The royal father, who also spoke on COVID-19 pandemic, urged residents of Borno State to continue to adhere strictly to all preventive protocols advocated by health experts. Speaking on the environment, the Shehu lamented the high rate at which trees were cut in the state, urging the state government to take urgent steps in mitigating this dangerous act before it leads to a serious environmental problem. He called for the reintroduction of tree planting which was a regular practice in the past. Governor Zulum thanked the Shehu for the visit and assured him of government’s readiness to address the issues raised by him.