Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Caretaker Committe in the South-West, Hon. Dayo Ogungbenro has dismissed insinuations in some quarters that some governors elected on the platform of the party are throwing their weight behind the candidate of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Mr Agboola Ajayi, in the forthcoming governorship election in Ondo State. It will be recalled that Ajayi, the current deputy governor of the state, defected to the PDP from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the governorship primary of the party, but promptly dumped the party after being defeated by Eyitayo Jegede (SAN) in a primary widely adjudged as credible and fair. In a statement issued in Ibadan Oyo State on Sunday, the PDP bigwig challenged the authors of what he called misleading reports to provide evidence that any PDP governor was backing Ajayi for the Ondo top job. He said: “PDP will never work with a renegade and political turncoat whose ambition is not grounded in reality. It is a mark of hypocrisy for those who could not abide by the result of a demonstrably free and fair governorship primary to be planting fake news in the media suggesting that they are being sponsored by PDP governors in other states. “For the avoidance of doubt, PDP governors, members in Ondo State and the good people of Ondo State are all solidly behind the candidate of our party and incoming governor of Ondo State, Eyitayo Jegede (SAN). They are doing everything within their power and within the laws of the land to ensure that he emerges the governor of Ondo State. This is the reality and nothing. “It is apparent that the 2016 governorship election was manipulated in favour of the present APC government. Even the revelations coming from within its ranks attest to that. But this time around, PDP and the people of the state are fully aware of its dirty antics and mobilized to stop them.” According to Hon. Ogungbenro when Agboola Ajayi came calling, the party opened its door to him thinking that he would add value to it, not knowing that he was a sly and desperate politician. He added that Ajayi had spent barely five weeks in the party before he jumped ship, saying that PDP governors would never support such a character who betrayed the confidence reposed in him.