Airline dispatches two Boeing 777 to China for national assignment By Chinedu Eze The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Air Peace, Allen Onyema, has commended the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, for the decision of the federal government to enforce the principle of reciprocity in granting permission to airlines to resume operations in the country as it opens its airspace. Onyema said this decision would elevate the image of Nigeria in the comity of nations and send signal to international airlines that it is no more business as usual. In a letter the Air Peace boss wrote to the minister to commend him on the decision of the federal government, he said, “You are causing a positive revolution in the aviation world. You have, by this action, brought so much respect to our people and our nation. Nigerians all over the world are walking tall with enormous pride since the last few hours when the news broke out. This is the beginning of the end of the stigmatisation of Nigeria and everything Nigerian. God bless you always. From my sincere heart, I have come to appreciate your nationalistic tendencies.” Onyema said the minister by his conduct and commitment, had ensured that the aviation industry was unencumbered, noting that Sirika facilitated the customs duty waiver on aircraft and spares and currently working on the unification of charges paid by domestic airlines. The Air Peace chairman also commended the minister for his overall commitment to the aviation industry, from his efforts towards restoring infrastructure at the airports to his intervention in labour issues, adding that Sirika had done so much to protect domestic airlines by spearheading earlier the policy that only Nigerian carriers should engage in evacuation conducted by the federal government. Meanwhile, Air Peace has dispatched two of its Boeing 777 aircraft to China on national assignments. The airline management said that the two aircraft were dispatched to the cities of Chengdu and Beijing respectively for important national assignments on behalf of the governments of Nigeria and China. Air Peace said the two aircraft with registration numbers 5N-BVE and 5N-BWI, departed the Murtala Muhammed International Airport Lagos Thursday night, just few minutes away from each other. “We evacuated 313 Chinese nationals in one flight and will return with over 300 stranded Nigerians. The other aircraft will be returning with expatriates at the behest of the Federal Government. Air Peace commends the Federal Government of Nigeria for standing by Nigerian airlines,” the airline said.