By Raheem Akingbola A group of concerned youths from the South-east, Ohanaeze Youth Council (OYC), has passed a vote of confidence on Former Governor of Imo State, Dr. Ikedi Ohakim, describing a recent publication against his person as a calculated attack on the entire Igbo nation. In a statement issued yesterday by the association, its National President, Comrade Igboayaka Igboayaka, gave 14-day ultimatum to the author of the purported publication, one Ms.Chinyere Amuchienwa, to either retract the fraud allegation leveled against the former governor or face the wrath of the youth body of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo. He described Amuchienwa and others behind the publication as recruited agents of some faceless individuals who were determined to foil the nation’s political advancement. The association stated that following the publication, they embarked on independent investigation, after reaching the former governor, to also unravel the personality of the woman involved and the credibility of her claims. “We want to state without any fear of contradictions that we have since discovered that Ms.Chinyere Amuchienwa’s claim was false in its entirety and that true to our earlier assertion, it was concocted to tarnish the image of His Excellency Dr. Ikedi Ohakim. Our fear is that other well-meaning and prominent Igbo leaders may be blackmailed ahead of the 2023 general election,” the statement stated. It further stated that OYC’s preliminary investigations have also revealed that Ohakim didn’t sell any land in Lagos or anywhere in the world to anybody and that the further claim that the Igbo leader received goods worth N110million from Amuchienwa, was also found out to be unfounded. “Therefore, this forum is issuing a two-week ultimatum to Ms Chinyere Amuchienwa to retract her allegations and make a public apology to Dr. Ikedi Ohakim as failure to do so, would only but compel us to take the necessary steps to expose her, her sponsors and other political enemies of Igbo interest”. While stating that the association would no longer condone any acts that are capable of ridiculing any Igbo leader at such a critical time like this when the other nationalities are doing everything to preserve their collective integrity and reposition their individual leaders in the fierce struggle over who gets what in Nigeria Political project, the association called on Igbo nation to work together as the country looks towards 2023 general election.