By James Sowole An Ondo-based organisation, Klick Connect Network, has engaged no fewer than 2,450 farmers for cassava production in Ondo State. The firm has also distributed tractors to the farmers under the, “Cassava Revolution to Ethanol Project known as CASSAREV
The project is aimed at boosting the production of cassava for economic development of the state and the farmers. The Chief Executive Officer of the organisation, Mr. Alexander Ajipe, disclosed this during an interactive session with journalists in Akure. Ajipe, said CASSAREV is a value chain programme set up to enlighten farmers on various business opportunities of cassava. He further disclosed that CASSAREV was initiated towards production of cassava for ethanol factory and contribute to human capital development as farmers would benefit immensely from the project. According to him, 2,434 cassava farmers had been engaged for its first phase of ethanol project proposed to boost the economy of the state. “We have distributed 10 new tractors to our farmers across the 18 local government in the state. “We will also provide herbicides and seedling for them. Their duty is just to supervise the farm. At the end of the day, we buy the cassava from them at international price. “We are also going to build modular processing factory in Ore, Igbaraoke and Ifon for the farmers so that they won’t have any problem in terms of processing it”. “This is a mechanised farming, apart from giving them tractors, we will give them planting machines that will plant the cassava so that we can achieve at least 30 tonnes of cassava per hectares.” In addition, if the farmers don’t have land, we are partnering with some cooperative societies that will give them land with token. “This is a good opportunity for our teaming youth, all what they need is to come to Klick Connect office to register which is free, we will give them all the necessary support from the beginning to the end by providing seedling, tractor, herbicides and other tools including security so that there won’t be any issue with herdsmen ,” Ajipe said. He, therefore called on the people of the state especially youth, to enroll into the program because more farmers are still needed across the state.