In what has been described as a notable achievement, one of Nigeria’s foremost legal technologies company, LawPavilion Business Solutions Limited, in collaboration with Telnet Group, last week concluded a 2-day virtual conference. The conference which had the keynote speech delivered by His Excellency, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, with goodwill messages from the Chief Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, and the outgoing President of the Nigerian Bar Association, Mr. Paul Usoro, SAN, has been commended as a timely conference about the important role that technology now plays in provision of legal services and administration of justice in Nigeria. One of the highpoints of the conference, was the unveiling and launching of the e-Library of the Laws of Lagos State on the LawPavilion platform by His Excellency, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Governor of Lagos State, represented by Mr. Moyo Onigbanjo SAN, Attorney- General and Commissioner for Justice of Lagos State. Working in collaboration with the Law Reform Commission of Lagos State, the e-library platform will make the Laws of Lagos State easily accessible and relevant for the use of Lagosians and the public. The Annotated e-laws of Lagos State on the platform will also highlight how the courts and populace interact with the laws, leveraging on machine learning and artificial intelligence. This approach will ensure that new laws and decisions of courts are data-driven, with its finger on the pulse of the general citizenry. Another noteworthy highlight of the conference was the unveiling of the LawRights App, a solution from the stables of LawPavilion, for the use of the general public to know and understand their constitutional rights, have access to Lawyers and law firms from within the app, and where necessary, initiate the process of adjudication where rights have been abused or trampled upon.
In his remarks, the Honourable CJN alluded to the giant strides that had been taken by the Apex Court in recent years by adopting the use of court management software, demonstrating a marked departure from the analogue system of adjudication. He reiterated the support of the Judiciary, in adopting new technologies that accelerate the delivery of justice to Nigerians. Also, the NBA President pointed out that access to justice and upholding rule of law will remain a mirage where the average citizen is ignorant of his rights under the law, or is deprived of widespread access to regulatory bodies and government agencies that can ensure that citizens’ rights are not trampled upon, and commended the LawRights App that had just been unveiled by LawPavilion, as a ground-breaking solution for Nigerians, including stakeholders in the administration of justice and legal services industries. Commenting on the remarks of the CJN and NBA President, the Vice President, Prof Osinbajo, SAN, expressed his elation at the willingness and rapid adoption of technology exemplified by the Supreme Court in giving its stamp of approval to virtual court sittings. He also drew attention to the fact that technology has aided the democratisation of law and justice in Nigeria, and called for purpose-built solutions for the administration of justice in Nigeria by local legal and technology companies in the country, pledging the Federal Government’s commitment to support tech companies in Nigeria adapt to the new global realities powered by artificial intelligence (AI) and sophisticated technology solutions. Speaking in another vein, with focus on young Nigerians, Gbenga Sesan, CEO of Paradigm Initiatives, pointed out there was the need to use technology to accelerate access to justice, especially as the country adjusts to the realities of the pandemic, citing several examples of interaction with law enforcement agencies which ended in wanton abuse of the human rights and dignity of the affected victims. During the panel discussion, in response to the question about the readiness of the Nigerian Judiciary to adapt technology as needed in a post Covid-19 environment, his Lordship, Hon Justice Olukayode Ariwoola JSC submitted that the Nigerian Judiciary has demonstrated and continues to demonstrate a willingness to adopt technologies and adapt court processes, in a bid to ensure that delivery of justice is not delayed or hampered.
Dr Babatunde Ajibade, SAN remarked that while there isn’t yet a national consensus about the adoption of technology, there needs to be more thinking about how technology can be harnessed to facilitate the delivery of justice, with the corresponding financial and human resources investments required. He pointed out that, there are still significant pockets of technologically challenged members of the Bar and the Bench. In terms of whether the legal service and Judiciary are walking the talk when it comes to using technology to enhance and improve delivery of services, Mr. Folorunsho Aliu, MD of Telnet Group, took an optimistic view that the sector and Nigeria is on a journey to getting better in how technology is used and harnessed for justice and economic growth.
There were several engaging discussion and panel sessions, including a session displaying e-filing and court management processes and solutions, aimed at accelerating case management of the entire court system from end to end, as well.