Nseobong Okon-Ekong writes that Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has completed an extremely tiring and demanding campaign tour of Edo North Senatorial District, the constituency of his running mate and Deputy Governor, Rt. Hon. Phillip Shuaibu Nto establish a new technical college in Uzebba, Owan West Local Government Area to boost Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) in the state, as part of strategies to build a vibrant workforce to drive the state’s industrial growth. The governor said his administration has, in the last three years and eight months, continued to pursue reforms and policies that have seen the development of critical sectors of the education sector, including basic, technical and tertiary education. Speaking to party faithful at wards 9 and 10 in Uzebba, Owan West LGA, the governor, who is the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the September 19, 2020 governorship poll, said his government is determined to transform the education sector and properly direct the resources of the state towards human capacity development. Leader of PDP in wards 9 and 10, Barr. Adelaja Ogun, commended the governor for his administration’s investment in education and other sectors of the state. On his part, Chairman of Owan West Local Government Area, Frank Ilaboya, applauded the governor’s developmental strides across all sectors of the state, which he said have positively impacted on the lives of the people. In another development, Obaseki, said the ward-to-ward campaign embarked upon by his party is designed for assessing the needs of Edo people at the community level, in order to bring more impactful projects closer to the people. The governor reassured that his administration will continue to put the interest of the people first in his development plan for the state. Obaseki spoke during his reelection campaign rally in Auchi, Etsako West Local Government Area. He said the ward campaign provides opportunity to ascertain the impact of government’s projects in the last three years in the various wards of the state. On his part, PDP leader in Auchi Ward 4, Mr. Yusuf Busari, said the people have decided to reward the governor with their votes, for his performance. Receiving thousands of defectors from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the PDP, Chairman, Edo PDP Governorship Campaign Council, Chief Dan Orbih, noted: “Governor Godwin Obaseki is a good man; the people of the state love him and are going to vote for him in the forthcoming gubernatorial election.” While on his reelection campaign trail the Odibiado of Sobe, His Royal Highness (HRH) Anthony Ero Aleburu 1, endorsed the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Mr. Obaseki, for the September 19, 2020 governorship election on the back of successes recorded by the administration across all sectors of the state. The monarch also conferred the Aideloje of Sobe (You Do Not Change the King) chieftaincy title on Governor Obaseki, noting: “You are already a king and no one can change the king.” Receiving the governor and the PDP campaign team in his palace in Sobe, Owan-West Local Government Area of Edo State, the traditional ruler applauded the governor for ensuring his people benefited from the developmental strides of his administration. Chief Barr. Dan Udugbezi, the Palace Adviser, who read the speech on behalf of the Odibiado of Sobe noted: “We want to assure you of our unalloyed support in the September 19 Governorship Election. In the 2016 election, we massively voted for you under the All Progressives Congress (APC). “Now that you are contesting on the platform of the PDP, we have all moved with you to the PDP and we are ready to vote massively for you and your deputy because of the wonderful works your administration has accomplished in education, healthcare, job creation, infrastructural development and sports, among others.” On his part, Governor Obaseki noted: “I have awarded the contract for the rehabilitation of the Sobe-Sabongidda-Ora road. We have gone into agreement to acquire farm lands along that road for the cultivation of cassava under a special programme with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The road is an economic road that must be constructed and by dry season, bulldozers will commence work. Addressing the people of Imiekuri Okpella, Governor Obaseki said that his administration would construct the Imiekuri-Okpella Road and also expand opportunities for jobs creation through strong synergy with private sector players in the minerals and mining sector operating in the area. Speaking to party faithful in ward 6 Imiekuri Okpella, Etsako East Local Government Area, Governor Obaseki said the state of the road was worrisome, adding that his administration would ensure it gets fixed. Obaseki assured that he would meet with the management of the two notable investors in the area, Dangote and BUA industries, whose investments in Okpella are worth N6 billion, to harmonise how best to engage more residents in the area in their factories and other key mid-level and management positions. Chief Olowu Kayode, a PDP leader in the ward, urged the people to come out en masse on September 19 to cast their votes for the Edo State Governor. In appreciation for successful rallies in Edo North, the Edo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Campaign Council expressed appreciation to party leaders, members, supporters and the electorate in Edo North Senatorial District of the state for their warm reception of the PDP candidate and Governor of the state, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, during the party’s campaign rally in the district. Chairman, Edo PDP Campaign Council, Chief Dan Orbih, who spoke to journalists in Benin City, the Edo State capital, said the show of solidarity and support was wonderful and inspiring. According to him, “On behalf of the Executive Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and his deputy, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu, and the members of the Edo State PDP Campaign Council, I express our gratitude to the good people of Edo North Senatorial District for the wonderful support they showed when we visited the various wards in Edo North. “We went round the 64 wards in Edo North and it was wonderful. The support was wonderful. I now see why people are committed to the re-election of the governor.” In Awuyemi-Okpella, Etsako East Local Government Area of Edo State, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki was assured total support of some elders ahead of the September 19 gubernatorial election in the state. The elders gave the assurance while addressing Governor Obaseki and his campaign team in Awuyemi, Ward 5 campaign ground, in Okpella. Speaking at the campaign ground, PDP Ward 5 leader, Mr Tunde Aje, said that they are behind the governor and would work assiduously to see to his re-election as governor. According to him, “We are strongly behind you. You can see the crowd that came out to welcome you. You have nothing to be afraid of; Ward 5 is strictly for PDP. “In your second term, we would want you to focus on the 4 kilometre Iddo-Awuyemi Road.” A former All Progressives Congress (APC) Ward 5 women leader, Mrs Fatima Shaka, said Governor Obaseki was trustworthy and would keep to his campaign promises. The visit ended on a promising note as Senior Zaiki of Okpella, Alhaji Dauda Suleiman, prayed for the emergence of Governor Obaseki in the September 19 gubernatorial election in the state.