By Yinka Kolawole The National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife (OAU) in Osun State have hailed the re-election of the President of African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Akinwunmi Adesina. In a statement issued by his media office, Tinubu said the re-election of Adesina for another term of five years is an affirmation of Africa’s confidence in his ability and commitment to the development of the region. The statement noted that in a passionate letter forwarded to Adesina at the weekend and personally signed by him, the former Lagos State governor said: “By way of this letter, please accept my heartfelt congratulations over your election to serve a second five-year as President, African Development Bank at the recent 2020 Annual Meetings of the AfDB Group. “Your unanimous re-election by the Board of Governors, coming after ill-defined attempts to block your continuance, shows that if we remain vigilant and true to the collective purpose of the economic progress of the African continent then fairness and justice will win out in the end. “As a globally renowned economist, you demonstrated outstanding competence and professionalism during your first term. Your re-election was but affirmation of Africa’s confidence in your ability and commitment. “In your first term, you distinguished yourself by driving to reshape the Bank that it would be a more active catalyst for Africa’s development. You focused on five development priorities known as the High 5s: Light up and Power Africa, Feed Africa, Industrialize Africa, Integrate Africa, and Improve the Quality of Life for the People of Africa. “As AfDB President for another term, I urge you to continue in like manner. Continue to invest your cognitive abilities, immense skills and robust energy in the development of Africa. “Given the exigencies of the present moment due to the global pandemic, you must put your knowledge and creativity into fullest use that we work towards creating more employment for the people of this continent and remove them from the grip of poverty and its attendant difficulties. “The AfDB must be at the policy and intellectual vanguard as we seek ways to contain both the public health and economic challenges of COVID-19. In OAU’s congratulatory message, the Vice Chancellor of the university, Professor Eyitope Ogunbodede, has congratulated Adesina, describing him as a worthy ambassador of “Great Ife” whose penchant for excellence in his chosen career is unparalleled. A statement by the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the university, Abiodun Olarewaju, stated that the Vice Chancellor who commended Akinwumi for submitting himself to be probed because he had no skeletons in his cupboard, stated that coming out clean and clear of any financial and administrative misdemeanor is an indication of the mental and moral sanctity of graduates of the prestigious Obafemi Awolowo University who have been trained, in their various departments, to put in their best efforts in whatever they do and wherever they find themselves. Describing Adesina as a good ambassador of OAU, Ogunbodede tasked him to redouble his efforts in all aspects, and making sure that the African Development Bank is put on a much higher pedestal so that the legacies of his administration will be indelible in the history of the continental Bank.