Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has unveiled the Westgate ICT Centre in the state capital, Asaba and restated the desire of his administration to continue to provide the enabling environment for investment to thrive. The Governor urged potential investors to take advantage of both human and natural resources of the state as well as its peaceful ambience to invest in several of human endeavour across the state. He spoke at the inauguration of privately driven ICT centre by Westgate Technologies Store with a 600 capacity Computer Based Test (CBT) centre, retail shop, training centre among others in Asaba. Okowa who was represented by the Commissioner for Science and Technology, Matthew Itsekiri, described the Westgate ICT centre as inspirational while noting that the government is proud to be associated with the achievement of Westgate. He said the presence of the hub in Asaba would save government the cost of going to Lagos and other parts of world for standard ICT products.
“We are pleased to have this here, it will save us cost of going to Lagos for ICT products which was not the case before now. As a government, we are ready to make Delta State a smart city in terms of ICT. I call on private entrepreneurs to support this drive in the development of ICT,” he said. Chairman of Westgate Technologies Store, Casmir Ezeudu in a remark, said they would not just sell products but meaningfully contribute to the growth of the host community. Ezeudu promised that the company would train 2,000 students drawn from public schools in ICT free of charge, and organise technology summit for youths within the host communities to develop their talents. “Most of our employees will drawn from here. And for a start, there will be free computer training for 2,000 students drawn from public schools because we want to assist those who ordinarily cannot afford these facilities,” Ezeudu said. Partners like Intel, HP, Crown, APC, OMEN, Canon, among others pledged their continued partnership with Westgate Technology to move the state and ICT development to a level where it will not only boost the economy of the state but also the country at large