Government should put its house in order It is a crying shame that the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST), both agencies of the federal government, cannot resolve the controversy over collection of stamp duties without public acrimony. With that, a clear statutory function has now been lost in allegations and counter-allegations that have given practical expression to an unhealthy inter-agency rivalry. Firing the first salvo, Chairman of NIPOST Board, Maimuna Abubakar lamented that the FIRS had stolen her agency’s mandate, arguing that the fiscal authority, which has the primary function of assessing, collecting and accounting for tax accruing to the Nigerian government, had started printing stamps. The FIRS promptly fired back, describing her tweet as ‘indecorous’ aside other broadsides. While NIPOST has doubled down on its claim that the postal agency operates an illegal stamp duties account, Nigerians are not only embarrassed but befuddled that government agencies could fight dirty in public over functions that should be clearly spelt out. It is particularly regrettable that before the open show of shame nobody in the administration could avert what had started to brew since last year. Indeed, the open spat between both agencies is another sad commentary on the Buhari administration’s internal conflict resolution capacity. In recent times, there have been shameful altercations between top government agencies and officials over matters that should routinely be resolved in-house. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy and the Chairman of the Nigeria Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM) fought on social media over office space. The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning and the Minister of Power squabbled over the sack of the Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Company Plc (NBET). There are many others, including among the security agencies. In the instant case of NIPOST and the FIRS, it is important to situate why two federal agencies are at daggers-drawn over who controls stamp duty collection. There is no denying the fact that the bickering by top government officials over stamp duty collection is not borne of altruistic motive. It is not about the quest to bolster revenue generation and better the system. It is much more about what accrues to the individual agencies as cost of collection. By the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility Act (2007), revenue generating agencies are entitled to five per cent of generated revenue as cost of collection. Such costs are left to the whims of the agencies and has over the years been subject to abuse. The federal government is targeting about N1 trillion annually from stamp duty, which is second only to oil revenue. Five per cent cost of collection is princely. This accounts largely for the turf fight among the agencies as to which of them is mandated to collect revenue. Even more worrisome is that audit reports from the Office of the Auditor General of the Federation have consistently reported that under the Buhari administration, the number of ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) which have failed to subject their activities to audit scrutiny as required by law, is on the increase. Against the background that the House of Representatives recently lamented the huge loss of federal government revenue due to under-remittances by government agencies, we must condemn this squabble. If the overriding motivation is purely to generate revenue for the government, the agency saddled with the collection is immaterial. We therefore urge the federal government to find a lasting solution to the current FIRS-NIPOST imbroglio. Beyond that, President Buhari must deal with the indiscipline under his watch by which heads of agencies are fighting one another in the public space. As we have repeatedly admonished, the president should put his house in order. Monday letter THE FIVE ‘INSOLVENT’ STATES: THE WAY OUT On August 24th, 2020, the Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) raised the alarm over the ‘extremely poor’ Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) by state governments. Thus, Katsina, Kebbi, Borno, Bayelsa and Taraba states are declared as ‘insolvent’. Figures from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) also indicate many states struggle to generate internal revenues and record a decline in revenue generation. This is not good for states. If no creative and feasible measures are taken, these insolvent states may not leapfrog their IGRs, or would further witness a decline in local revenue generation. Most states in Nigeria are battling with dwindling federal allocations, poor innovations on internally generated revenue; bloated workforce and fraud-riddled workers’ payroll. Generating substantial internal revenue is an important task and policy for any serious government. Thus, it is a critical situation that requires critical measures. State governments should look at ways to generate revenue other than overly depending on the declining federal allocations. The easiest way is through massive IGR. But, once IGR is mentioned, we mostly cast our minds to the old methods of taxation, which unfortunately had histories of corruption and inefficiency, and thus most Nigerians are skeptical of the taxes and levies of many state administrations. States can generate new revenues and wealth through levies and taxations, but the governments must move away from the ‘rocket-science’ approach to tax collection. We must admit that most states do not have flourishing economic activities that are profitable and easy to tax without upsetting common people. States should introduce a modified system of awarding ‘tax collection rights’ to investment firms. This should be modeled according to each state’s economy, culture, needs and environment. For example, a state government can enter into an agreement with a firm to give the state government monies in advance for taxes from a certain sector, while the firm would then subsequently collect the money by operating as a tax agent for the state, through the famous tax auction systems. For example, if it is projected that state ‘A’ revenues from taxes, buses and lorry services in a certain local council can generate one million naira a month, an innovative investment firm could agree to give a state government about N800,000 in advance. Then the firm will collect these taxes in the local council for that particular month. This type of arrangement can be implemented across sectors of the economy of the state using what operation researchers call the ‘reductionistic’ approach, whether monthly, quarterly or on yearly basis. A good investment firm will make the tax collection efficient and fair by reaching agreements with taxpayers on how to pay and enjoy the incentives around this too. This type of arrangement can assist the state to have tax efficiency and tax fairness, and the governments will relieve itself from the burden of tax collection and would have the needed revenues in advance (which could be up to a 10-year advance payment). It would also generate thousands of jobs, while government tax officers would be kept very busy in the area of regulations. We must also remind ourselves that many of us including government officials misunderstood or rather misapply the use of consultants. The consultant’s major task is to support the government with specific areas. Consultants are mainly catalysts for innovation and invention – they are simply the resource and the facilitator in tax administration. The leadership and ownership of the process still remains the government officials. Land use charges are important instrument in revenue generation for government. State governments should cash-in in that area. Most state, especially in the north, should entirely overhaul and simplify the land title registration, ownership of Certificates of Occupancy (C-of-O) and documentation of all land transactions. Geographic Information System should also be setup or resuscitated and introduce a seamless payment process for the land use charge as well as eliminate all multiple taxations. Kaduna State is handsomely generating IGR from this. Apart from innovations in the collection of taxes, states can look into leveraging on the assets they have. There are thousands of unserviceable vehicles, farm implements and many types of electrical equipment. Governments can make money by auctioning such items. Furthermore, many states have some under-utilized buildings – completed and uncompleted, fenced and unfenced plots of land (e.g. the liaison and guest houses in Abuja, Kaduna and Lagos). These assets are commercially viable. They can be leased or sold. Funds can be generated from these arrangements. In addition, the state can discuss with CBN and other financial hubs – there are billions of ‘free’ and ‘soft’ monies in Nigeria and in the international arena. A state governor that understands these and the working of the international institution would be added advantage to a state. That’s why I admire polished individuals like Nuruddeen Muhammad as governors of a state- they are in the know of the local needs and very familiar with the operations and politics of the Bretton Woods Zayyad I. Muhammad, Jimeta, Adamawa State