Peter Uzoho The Nigeria Exporting Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA) has commended LADOL Free Zone for attracting agro-processing and healthcare companies into the zone as well as initiating partnerships with international companies such as Mammoet. The Managing Director of NEPZA, Prof. Adesoji Adesugba, gave the commendation during his official tour of LADOL recently, and expressed particular support for the zone. Adesugba, who was accompanied on the tour by top management of NEPZA, stated that LADOL’s development of infrastructure and facilities for logistics, now being expanded to support a wide range of industries, was both strategic for the company and for Nigeria. He said more than $1billion was spent by Nigerians going abroad for medical tourism every year, stating that, “it is an opportunity for us now that nobody will be traveling again for medicals. By using the Free Zone strategy, it will now attract very good investment to this sector and get the hospital to come very close to us in Nigeria. “This is one area we will be very happy to work with you LADOL, in promoting. Also, for the very important aspect of Agriculture Free Zone, I am happy that you are thinking in that direction.”
Adesugba further explained that he had assumed the leadership position of the agency at a time when COVID-19 pandemic was ravaging the world, necessitating a holistic strategy towards medical tourism using free zone approach in Nigeria. On the area of agriculture, Adesugba specifically commended LADOL’s initiative of setting up more cold store facilities, which he noted could also service the fishing industry in Nigeria. He identified the initiative as a key opportunity for private sector owing to the significant amount of fish Nigerians consume annually.
Adesugba reiterated the importance of maintaining a harmonious, seamless working relationship between NEPZA and its sister agencies in Free Zones.
He stressed that such harmony would ensure that Free Zones can contribute significantly to Nigeria’s economic growth, and meet government objectives of encouraging industrialisation. Responding, the Managing Director of LADOL, Dr. Amy Jadesimi, noted that Adesugba was more than qualified to take NEPZA to the next level.
She restated the commitment of the management and staff towards the development of LADOL and achieve its mission and vision of making Nigeria the industrial hub of Africa.