By Emma Okonji Western Digital has introduced the new WD brand My Passport SSD in capacities up to 2TB, with a sleek, compact metal design and blazing fast speeds powered by NVMe technology. The new palm-sized storage drive allows home and business users to save, access, accelerate their productivity and protect their valuable content without compromising style. Announcing the new product at a virtual launch recently, Vice President, Consumer Solutions at Western Digital, Susan Park, said: “The new My Passport SSD delivers the speed, reliability and functionality consumers have come to expect from us. “It is a powerful and sophisticated solution for the everyday content creators, curators and hobbyists who need to move files quickly. The rounded corners, waving ridges and soft edges enhance the My Passport SSD’s portability and make it easy to carry, yet also distinctly recognizable as a member within WD’s award-winning My Passport product line-up.” Giving details of the product, Sales Director, Africa at Western Digital, Ghassan Azzi, said: “Now more than ever, consumers are looking to empower their productivity by keeping their files and increasingly large content libraries with them. Creators can move and edit high-quality content nearly twice as fast with the new My Passport SSD compared to the previous version of the storage drive, saving time to do more. Whether on a laptop or desktop while at home, in the office or on the go, professionals can reliably store their data on this drive. “WD’s My Passport SSD is designed from the ground up to provide reliable performance and a touch of luxury, inside and out. The bold metal design is both stylish and durable. It feels great in the hand and fits comfortably in a bag or pocket, enabling consumers to bring their content wherever life takes them and keep productivity flowing. Available in a range of modern colors, including Gray, Blue, Red and Gold, consumers can choose the drive that best fits their style.” According to Azzi, the new My Passport SSD offers the technical features users need and want, including:Blazing fast NVMe technology with read speeds of up to 1050MB/s1 and write speeds of up to 1000MB/s1; Password enabled 256-bit AES hardware encryption to help protect valuable content simply; Featuring shock and vibration resistance and drop resistant up to 6.5 feet (1.98m); Software2 to make it easy to back up large files to your drive or a cloud service account3; USB 3.2 Gen-2 technology with a USB-C cable and a USB-A adaptor; and Ready to use out of the box and compatible with Mac and PC. For pricing and availability, Azzi said “My Passport SSD is backed by a five-year limited warranty and is now available in the 500GB and 1TB capacities in Gray worldwide at select e-tailers and retailers, with additional colours and capacities available later this year. The new drive has a Manufacturer’s Suggested Retail Price (MSRP in USD) in the US of $119.99/500GB and $189.99/1TB, respectively. The solution is compatible with social channels such as Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter.