By Emma Okonji Samsung Electronics recently hosted its first-ever Galaxy Unpacked virtual event live streamed from Korea, where it introduced the Galaxy Ecosystem that will address the next normal. Managing Director, Samsung Nigeria, Mr. Caden Yu, who spoke during the global launch, said: “Technology has shown a great influence in enabling our current work environment especially the need to work from home. Working remotely seems to be creating longer worker hours and throwing a nail in the workings of work-life balance principle. Thankfully, Samsung is set to bring this to an end with a new reality; the ability to seamlessly switch between work and play. “At the core of the ecosystem is the Galaxy Note20 and Note20 Ultra, which builds on Note’s legacy as the most powerful Note series yet by bringing PC power and the best Galaxy mobile experience to the palm of one’s hand.” According to Samsung, the Note 20 series remains an ultimate power phone for work and play. Samsung however said with the Galaxy buds live and Watch 3, it opens consumers’ world to a whole new possibility, with no disconnection and reconnection required. These powerful devices deliver new connected experiences across fitness, health, entertainment and more. For fitness and health balance, the buds live is ergonomically designed to comfortably fit into the ears providing audio sounds deep and rich so you can enjoy music the way the artist intended. “While you are on a run, the active noise cancellation of the buds live keep the honking horns of the passing cars and revving sound of the engines away immersing you into your favorite exercise tune. “For those that do not run, you can still enjoy clear sounds from the buds live while you make a choice from the 120 home training programs on the Galaxy watch 3, tracking your work out progress and monitoring your health status with the new Samsung health Monitor app. Whether you are in the office or working from home, the watch 3 helps you maintain a healthy balance,” Yu said. He explained that the smartphone videography had just been taken a notch higher with the combination of the Note20, Note20 Ultra and buds live. When paired with these devices, the buds live can be used as a wireless microphone delivering crystal-clear audio while minimizing noise in the background.