Nume Ekeghe Ikeja Electric Plc (IE) is celebrating the first-year anniversary of its Willing Buyer- Willing Seller initiative also known as bilateral power by customers. The company’s Bilateral Power service which was launched last year promises customers a minimum of 20 hours power supply and improved service in exchange for cost reflective tariff. This initiative, which kicked off in August 2019 was first implemented in Magodo Phase 2 and was subsequently adopted by Diamond Estate, Magodo Brooks, Ogudu GRA, Ikeja GRA, Abule Onigbagbo, G. Cappa, Omole Phase I&II, Maryland Crescent, Shonibare, Hilltop Aboru, River Valley and Adebowale Senbanjo Estates all in the Ikeja Electric network. According to the Disco, since the commencement of Bilateral Power in Magodo Phase 2, a year ago, it has consistently delivered an average of 22 hours power supply, in addition to dedicated customer service help desk and technical fault clearing crew. Speaking on the first anniversary of Bilateral Power, Chief Executive Officer, Ikeja Electric, Mrs. Folake Soetan, said results achieved so far by Ikeja Electric through the service speak volumes of the sustainability and reliability of this model. She added: “The initiative has surpassed expectations, delivered quality service and steady supply that meets the need of our customers, whilst Ikeja Electric remains committed towards constantly improving in service delivery in line with its mantra – customer first, technology now.” She noted that the DisCo’s motivating factor to come up with Bilateral Power stemmed from its determination to actualise its slogan which is bringing energy to life and driven by passion to harness electricity supply in bolstering socio-economic activities in Nigeria. She added: “Ikeja Electric is committed to ensuring that that businesses, residential customers, industries and manufacturing companies within our franchise network enjoy quality supply, and that is what Bilateral Power has been able to deliver. This initiative is no doubt a model worthy of emulation.” She further explained that the attendant benefits, which include reduction in air and noise-pollution, are evident across the Estates, where Bilateral Power has been implemented. She also debunked insinuation that the service is elitist, stating that the service extends across its network and is not selective of demography. Residents of Magodo Phase 2 also gave their feedback on the performance of the scheme scoring the Disco positively, while assessing the initiative in the last one year. A resident, Tim Akano described the initiative as a great innovative step.