By Onyebuchi Ezigbo The Christian and Muslim leaders under the auspices of the Nigerian Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) have cried out against the rising insecurity in the country. The body, which is co-chaired by the Sultan of Sokoto and the President General of the Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar, and the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Samson Olasupo Ayokunle, said that it was constrained to call on the government to provide security for the Nigerian citizens. A statement that was issued yesterday by the Executive Secretary of NIREC, Rev. Fr. Cornelius Afebu Omonokhua, said that the council is worried over the spate of killings and carnage visited on innocent Nigerians in various parts of the country. The statement reads: “The NIREC is worried that the threats and killings keep spreading. We condemn the carnage on human life especially the recent killings of 76 people in Sabon Birni Local Government of Sokoto State; RuwanTofa Dansadua district in Zamfara State; ZagonKataf Local Government Area in Kaduna State; Bethel Baptist Church Aguda-Dauruwan in Kogi State and the attack on the convoy of the Borno State Governor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum at Baga. We condemn absolutely, the political thuggery that threatens human life and peaceful coexistence.” The NIREC recalled that during his traditional Sallah homage to the Governor of Borno State, the Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Abubakar Ibn Umar Garbai ElKanemi cried out that his people in Borno are no longer safe. “Consequently, Maiduguri, in particular should not be allowed to be run over by the insurgents who have been throwing mortar there, killing people. These show how serious the state of insecurity is in the nation. These situations and the likes are of grave concern to the NIREC. The unabated carnages leave the citizens in a state of complete despair as economic activities are almost paralysed. “The NIREC is, therefore, constrained once again to call on the government at all levels to take security as a top priority for every Nigerian. The government at all levels must double up their efforts of securing the lives and property of the citizens. “The security agents must fish out the criminals to face justice. The security agents must mop up the arms and ammunitions in the hands of criminals. The government must ensure a complete stop to the proliferation of all forms of weapons that criminals use to destroy life and property,” the council said.