Uchechukwu Nnaike A total of 69 graduands of the Corona College of Education, Ilupeju, Lagos, were conferred with the Nigeria Certificate in Education (NCE) and Professional Diploma in Education (PDE) at the second convocation ceremony of the institution. In his convocation address, the Provost, Dr. Martin Obinyan said the college was “the first college of education in Nigeria to deploy technology massively for its academic activities and has completed its programmes within the set time frame, despite all odds.” Obinyan urged the graduands to remain worthy ambassadors of the college and to carry along with them the discipline, values and skills that they developed while at the institution. He said those values would help shape their future. Also, in attendance was the Chairman of the college, Mr. Sulaiman Adedotun, who congratulated all graduating students and awardees, saying that the college was established almost a decade ago to contribute to building teacher capacity in the country primarily through continuous professional development programmes. He also appealed to the Federal Government of Nigeria and the state government to recognise and support private educators as partners in progress of the noble cause. The Registrar and Chief Executive Officer, Teachers’ Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN), Professor Josiah Ajiboye, whose presence added colour to the occasion, commended the management and staff of the college for always observing the TRCN induction protocol. Ajiboye also acknowledged the government, educational administrators and stakeholders in the industry for being proactive as they employed technology to bridge the gap in the teaching and learning process during the COVID-19 lockdown. The TRCN declared Corona College of Education as one of the best private colleges in Nigeria and as an ICT-compliant college because of its adaptation of the e-learning platform to run its programmes during the lockdown. While congratulating the inductees, he advised them to guide and guard the profession jealously, as penalty awaits anyone found wanting.
The students received their PDE/NCE certificate, TRCN certificate and TRCN license on the same day, which is the first of its kind in any college of education. The historic online convocation ceremony was also graced by the Chairman, Corona Schools Trust Council, Justice Bukunola Adebiyi, the CEO, Corona Schools Trust Council, Mrs. Adeyoyin Adesina, other members of the council, governing board, family members and loved ones.