The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has lifted the suspension on the printing of admission letters, and inter-university transfers among others. It said with the development, “all requests for printing of admission letters, inter-university transfers, condonement of illegitimate admissions and other processes for previous years which had been hitherto suspended would now be restored from Monday, August 31 2020.” JAMB’s Head of Media and Public Relations, Dr. Fabian Benjamin, made the announcement in a statement issued yesterday in Abuja. He said, “To ensure that candidates who took the UTME prior to 2020, and who require certain corrections of their processes are accommodated, JAMB has lifted the suspension earlier placed on processes covering those years. “However, it is to be noted that most of these operations are only available at JAMB offices nationwide. Furthermore, as the Board is desirous of sustaining compliance with COVID-19 protocols, it maintains that 2020 UTME candidates desirous of these services will only be attended to through the Appointment Booking Platform which they could access online through their phones to secure a definite date and time for an appointment. “The Board urged all State offices to ensure that all clients comply with all existing COVID -19 protocols. To ensure that candidates who took the UTME prior to 2020, and who require certain corrections of their processes are accommodated, the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has lifted the suspension earlier placed on processes covering those years. “As you may be aware, the need to prevent overcrowding at its Computer-Based Test Centres and other partner facilities, in line with extant COVID -19 protocols issued by relevant agencies, led it to allow candidates to seek corrections and other processes only through the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination or Direct Entry platforms. This measure had the intended effect of limiting the number of persons visiting the centres. “As the government continues to ease the lockdown leading to the resumption of students in exit classes, the number of 2020 UTME candidates needing one service or another at the various centres has drastically gone down, thus, the Board has decided to open up its platforms to accommodate more requests especially from previous years. “Therefore, all requests for printing of admission letters, inter-university transfers, condonement of illegitimate admissions and other processes for previous years which had been hitherto suspended would now be restored from Monday August 31 2020. “However, it is to be noted that most of these operations are only available at JAMB offices nationwide. Furthermore, as the Board is desirous of sustaining compliance with COVID-19 protocols, it maintains that 2020 UTME candidates desirous of these services will only be attended to through the Appointment Booking Platform which they could access online through their phones to secure a definite date and time for an appointment.” JAMB also urged all state offices to ensure that all clients comply with all existing COVID-19 protocols.