By Nosa Alekhuogie Green Eagles Agribusiness Solutions Limited, has unveiled an initiative called ‘The GreenWealth Project.’ The agricultural initiative, which is aimed at ensuring food security, economic diversification and sustainable wealth for all stakeholders, was launched at a media briefing in Lagos, recently. According to the company, “The project is designed to enhance profitability for stakeholders across agricultural value chains, as well as facilitate easy and profitable entry for small-holders into agriculture.” The Chief Executive Officer, Green Eagles Agribusiness Solutions Limited, Mr.Taiwo Oluwadahushola, in his opening remarks said: “Food security has become a more serious issue than ever, and as a nation, we must bridge the local deficit in the production of critical food and cash crops to avert a major food crisis.” The launch of the GreenWealth Project is expected to help in creatively restructuring the nation’s agribusiness space in order to achieve the goal of shoring up the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) through agriculture. “In achieving this goal, we will facilitate the establishment of Integrated Farm Estates in 774 Local Government Area across the federation to drive a rapid increase in crops and livestock, which is produced round-the-year at significantly lower production costs, until we achieve equilibrium of demand and supply at consistently lower prices. “This will provide sustainable livelihoods for millions of rural dwellers and unemployed youths as well as sustainable returns for sponsors,” he added. On her part, the Managing Director, Adebola Adetayo explained that the project would provide sustainable livelihoods for millions of rural dwellers and unemployed youths as well as sustainable returns for sponsors, while stirring up unprecedented economic prosperity in and around rural communities. “This project is what I will like to call the New Nigeria Project and the easy way to get out of our economic crises is diversification into agribusiness. “The first phase of the project will be geared towards the goal of national food security while the second phase will facilitate the achievement of export prominence in crops where we have agro-ecological advantage. “Our projections show we can assure an annual return 30 per cent to sponsors, that is 15 per cent every six months. At the end of each investment circle, a sponsor may request for a roll over or principal repayment.” One of the Directors of the company, Dr. Emmanuel Ijiwere said it was long overdue to take action and make agriculture a major source of livelihood at all levels while ensuring food security in Nigeria and Africa as a whole.