Huawei’s Executive Director and President of the Carrier BG, Mr. Ryan Ding, has called on telecoms operators to boost network construction in order to unleash network potential and inspire global business growth. Ding made the call while delivering a keynote speech at the recently concluded Better World Summit 2020. According to Ding, “As the COVID-19 crisis continues globally, carriers need to be prepared in four areas of network construction and business development to quickly unleash network potential and inspire business growth. He said Carriers need to maximize the value of existing networks and make the most of their networks and rapidly expand their capacity by using software or adding boards or replacing RRUs. This, he said, could help them respond to the soaring data traffic during the pandemic and optimize site TCO. “Carriers should focus on user experience and build the best 5G networks. The best network experience brings the biggest commercial success. In South Korea, for example, carriers are seeing lucrative gains from building the best 5G networks and offering users the best experience. Huawei will continue to help carriers deliver the best possible user experience and quickly monetize 5G network capabilities. “Carriers need to speed up 5G commercialization in B2B for more business opportunities. 5G is entering a new development phase, and the B2B market is key for carriers’ commercial success. Carriers need to choose the right industries and build new 5G capabilities targeting B2B. They also need to push for unified industry standards to accelerate 5G adoption at scale in B2B,” Ding said. He further explained that succeed in B2B, choosing the right industries would be crucial. Private lines have become a quick-win use case for 5G in B2B, with more than 15 carriers having 5G private line services. Carriers can consider three factors when deciding which industries to focus on: industry attractiveness, commercial viability, and technical viability. Huawei suggests that carriers should currently focus on mining, steel, ports, and oilfield industries when developing 5G in B2B. Carriers need to build 5G network planning, construction, maintenance, optimization, and operations capabilities for B2B. For example, they need to improve their network planning capabilities that target different production environments of industries, and provide products and solutions that meet industry requirements. In addition, they need to develop service and ecosystem enablement platforms, provide standardized products and services, and build viable business models, Ding said. He advised Carriers to continue to push for unified industry standards, adding that unified industry standards are the basis for large-scale 5G development in B2B. Cross-industry collaboration is well under way. Many industries like mining and steel have begun to communicate industry standards through such efforts as publishing industry white papers, establishing ecosystem alliances, and participating in standards discussion. “Carriers need to build future-oriented target networks. The telecoms industry needs to think hard about how their networks can be adapted to the ever-changing needs of individuals, families, and businesses as well as how to support the development of the digital economy. Huawei will continue to help carriers build future-oriented target networks to support their continued success,” Ding added. Other speakers at the session include Senior Vice President at China Unicom, Liang Baojun; General Manager of Government-Enterprise Business Group at China Mobile, Liu Jian; Vice President of AR/VR Service at LG U+, Choi Yoon Ho; Executive Director at Strategy Analytics, Phil Kendall; and President of 5G Product Line at Huawei, Peng Honghua.