The ongoing Dangote Cement Bag of Goodies Promo Season 2 has cushioned the harsh impact of COVID-19 on businesses and families by producing 60 millionaires across the nation. The Dangote Cement Director of Marketing, Mrs. Funmi Sanni said that more winners are expected to emerge in the coming weeks. Sanni also stated that 27 winners have been presented with their prizes as they received alerts during the presentation ceremonies held in several cities across the nation while the remaining ones are to receive alerts this week. She said during one of the prize presentation ceremonies that the promotion was to encourage customers to continue to patronize the company’s cement product, which according to her, is the best in the country. She said the company had been making efforts to satisfy its teeming customers to the fullest by introducing several customer-driven promotional offers in order to keep their relationship intact. According to her, a customer could only win the N1 million cash prize on collection of the scratch cards that carries letter D, A, N, G, O, T and E to make up the name DANGOTE. She added that other prizes to be won include motorbikes, tricycles, television sets, recharge cards, among others in the promotion that is billed to end on November 5. The Chief Commercial Officer of the Dangote Group, Mr. Rabiu Umar, remarked that the negative impact of COVID-19 on the economy motivated Dangote Cement to decide to award a total of N1 billion to 1,000 winners across the country. According to him, the Dangote Cement deemed it fit to continue with the second phase of the promo, which it tagged Bag of Goodies 2, in order to give back to the society and cushion the effects of the pandemic. Umar said: “Despite effects of COVID-19 on global economy, Dangote Cement company has decided to go ahead with the Bag of Goodies promo in order to give back to the society. This promo is like a palliative to our teeming customers who have suffered economic hardship, occasioned by the pandemic. “Therefore, this would at least cushion the effects of the pandemic. We feel that despite the pandemic, it is worthy to put a smile on the face of our teeming customers across the country. I am sure we have achieved our aim in this round of the promo.”