James Sowole in Akure The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has called on the security agencies to arrest the All Progressives Congress (APC) Chieftain, Mr. Isaacs Kekemeke, for allegedly threatening to use thugs and “federal might” during the October 10, 2020 gubernatorial election in the state. This was disclosed yesterday by the State Chairman of the PDP, Mr. Him Fatai Adams, at a news conference. However, Kekemeke has apologised through the same social media that he did not meant the content of the video. Nevertheless, Adams insisted that Kekemeke threatened in a video that went viral on social media that he would use thugs to deal with the PDP candidate, Mr Eyitayo Jegede. Adams said: “There’s this viral video where one Isaacs Kekemeke, former Chairman of the APC in Ondo State, openly admitted that the APC thugs sponsored by Akeredolu were responsible for destroying campaign bill boards and posters of the PDP Governorship Cansidate, Mr. Eyitayo Jegede, (SAN). “He also confessed that the NURTW will be mobilised with arms and ammunition to rig the election in favour of the APC. He admitted in like manner that ‘federal might’ (whatever that means) will be brought to bear on the elections in Ondo State. “We are very surprised that up till now, the security agencies have not apprehended D.I. Kekemeke to answer for his utterances that are capable of precipitating crisis and setting Ondo State on fire ahead of the gubernatorial election in the state. “We’ve sent letters to security agencies this morning (Monday). The security agencies are representatives of Mr. President and we believe through this, he will intervene. “We are doing this to guarantee free and fair election in the state during the forthcoming gubernatorial election on October 10, 2020. “His statement was careless, very reckless and unbecoming of a man who parades himself as a lawyer. By his utterances, he’s a huge disgrace to his profession and party,” Adams said, adding that “as a party, we are prepared for a free and fair election, and Akeredolu and his party should do the same. But if there is any violence during this period, Akeredolu and APC should be held responsible.”