Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has said that his administration is retooling the state’s economy with impactful reforms and skilled youth population that can compete globally. According to Obaseki, “We will continue to prioritise the needs of youths and harness their energy and innovativeness in our drive to grow the state’s economy and engender sustainable development.” He said this at an event held to mark the International Youth Day (IYD) themed “Youth Engagement for Global Action,” in Benin City, the Edo State capital. The governor, who was represented at the event by the Edo State Head of Service, Barr. Anthony Okungbowa, said: “Edo State as of today places a high premium on youths. This event captures our desire to keep promoting the wellbeing of Edo youths.” He noted that this year’s theme, “Youth Engagement for Global Action” calls for deep reflection, as every society is anchored on its youths, stressing that they represent the productive capacity of most nations. Stressing the need to prioritise the interest of youths in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, he said, “We expect that today’s event will not only be used to appreciate the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on the youths but to also draw more attention to the search for COVID-19 vaccine. “I want to specially thank Edo youths for their contributions toward the progress of Edo State and of course the resilience, courage and uncommon understanding, expressed in their deep-rooted patriotism and unrelenting willpower for self-actualisation in spite of the challenges they face.” He noted that creating a safe environment for the youths to express themselves was crucial to building a prosperous society. The Governor Obaseki-led administration has invested in youth development in the last three years and eight months. The government has prioritised technical and vocation education leading to the retooling of its Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) institutions. The Edo Innovation Hub was also established to groom technology startups and equip youths with relevant Information and Communication Technology skills.