•Buhari invites Ize-Iyamu for crucial meeting By Iyobosa Uwugiaren The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu; the President of the Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Lawan; members of the National Assembly; all governors elected on the platform of APC and other top leaders of the party are expected in Benin City, the Edo State capital this Saturday for the flag-off of the party’s governorship campaign. As part of the preparation for the rally, President Muhammadu Buhari has invited the party’s candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu for a crucial meeting at the Villa, Abuja. The party’s candidate, who is already in Abuja for the meeting with the president, was said to have met with members of the National Campaign Council for the Edo State governorship election on Monday night. Those who attended the meeting including former Senate President, Dr. Ken Nnamani; Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State; Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State; Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State; and the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, among others. “As part of the preparation for the flag-off of our rally in Benin City this Saturday, members of the campaign council met with our candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, on Monday night, to fine-tune the arrangement. “Interestingly, the president has directed all APC governors to attend the rally; and our Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, will also lead members of the National Assembly to the event. In all the preparation, we are very mindful of the COVID-19 protocol,’’ a member of the campaign council told THISDAY. The source said that Buhari will not be at the rally because of COVID-19 protocol, but will be represented by a top government official. “President Muhammadu Buhari will not be at the rally. You know he has drastically reduced his public functions in the past few months because of the COVID-19 pandemic. But he will be represented by a senior government official. And the president has also invited Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu for a meeting ahead of the scheduled rally,’’ the source added.