The campaign train of the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has continued to harvest more defectors across the state as the PDP welcomed over 3,000 new members in Owan East Local Government Area who decamped from the All Progressives Congress (APC), declaring their support for the governor’s reelection ahead of the September 19 gubernatorial poll. Leader of PDP in Owan East LGA, Sen. Yisa Braimoh, said the mass defection shows the popularity of Governor Obaseki and his performance in the last three years and eight months. Braimoh who commended the governor for the successes recorded by his administration in infrastructural development, healthcare, and education, among other sectors of the state, assured Obaseki of over 85 per cent of the total vote cast in the region. He said: “Since you joined our party, we have issued out over 3,000 new PDP cards to new members. This is happening not only in wards 3 and 4 but across all wards in the local government area. If an election is conducted today in the state, we will win our entire wards with over 85 per cent”. A physically challenged supporter in Ward 10 in Ivbiaro, Aigbodion Samuel, who spoke on behalf of other physically challenged persons in the ward, said Obaseki had remained a lover and supporter of physically challenged persons in the state, noting that they have decided to support him come September 19, 2020. On his part, Obaseki reassured that the construction of Ivbiaro-Warrake road will commence by October this year, adding that the road is important as the people in the area are majorly farmers. He said his administration will focus on human capital development to better the lives of the people. At Ward 3 and 4, Obaseki said his administration will construct Ihievbe-Ihievbe-Ogben Road and improve the healthcare system in the area. Obaseki’s reelection bid also received a major boost as leaders and residents of Ivbiaro community in Owan East Local Government Area threw their weight behind the second term bid of the governor and his deputy, Hon. Philip Shaibu. Receiving the governor and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s campaign team in his Palace, the Ogie of Ivbiaro Kingdom, His Royal Highness, Alh. Salifu Elabor, said the governor’s performance in the last three years and eight months will earn him reelection. The monarch, who expressed delight at the visit by the governor and his campaign team, reassured that the people of Ivbiaro will vote PDP to enable Obaseki consolidate on his administration’s first term achievements. The traditional ruler noted: “Your Excellency, you will recall that Owan East Local Government Area voted for you massively in 2016 and we assure you of doing the same in this forthcoming election. “Your reforms in education, health, sports and infrastructure, among other developmental strides recorded by your administration in the first term earned you the name ‘Wake and See Governor’. We commend you for extending your developmental projects to our community. “We pray for peaceful election in the state; we ask God to grant you your heart’s desires and also pray for you and your entourage to arrive home safely.” Meanwhile, Governor Obaseki assured the people that he would prioritise the construction of Agbede-Warrake-Ivbiaro Road if elected for a second term. According to him, “Let me start by thanking you for your prayers and support in the last four years which have been helpful. I am very grateful because you have helped me to maintain peace in your area. “But on our part as a government, we have been able to make use of the resources available to us. But I want to assure you that if I win the forthcoming gubernatorial election, I will prioritise the construction of Agbede-Warrake-Ivbiaro Road; this is not a political statement. “We are going to move development more to the rural areas across the 18 local government councils in the state as most people now stay in these areas due to the outbreak of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.”