By Hammed Shittu Kwara State Governor, Alhaji AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has fecilitated with the people of the state on the occasion of Eid-ul-Kabir celebration in the state. He however prayed to the Almighty God to ease the current global pandemic and insure humanity against recurrence. In a statement issued in Ilorin yesterday by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Rafiu Ajakaye, AbdulRazaq specifically also felicitated with and commended the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari and the various religious establishments for their support for the government’s preventive measures ahead of the festivities. The statement read, “His Excellency urges every citizen to see this pandemic as a test from God which requires a combination of faith in the Almighty, collective discipline, and a determination to defeat the common enemy by everyone adhering to the protocols that would lead to the flattening of the curve. “Even, I request that everyone celebrate Eid in their homes and in strict adherence to safety rules. On his part, he will celebrate Eid privately with his family. “As a Government, one of the key takeaways from the COVID-19 pandemic is the need to be proactive and inventive in filling the socioeconomic and infrastructural gaps that would make life easier for our people. Also, the state chairman of APC, Hon. Bashr Bolarinwa has enjoined Muslims in the state to continue to pray for the unity and oneness of the country. In a statement issued in Ilorin to mark Eid-el- Kabri celebration, Bolarinwa said that, “it is in the atmosphere of peace that the development would come to our doorsteps.” Bolarinwa also called on the people of the state to continue to support government at all levels so as to move the nation forward. A stalwart of the ruling APC, Mallam Saliu Mustapha, has implored Nigerian citizens not to lose hope in the face of multidimensional challenges confronting the world. He also emphasised the need to constitute themselves into vanguards of peace, tolerance and be charitable to one another. Mustapha, in his message to Muslim community on the occasion commemorating Eid-el-Kabir, admonished them to exhibit lifestyles reflective of the purpose of the Islamic festivity, which revolves around brotherhood, piety, sacrifice and resilience. In his own message, the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the state during the last general elections, Hon. Razak Atunwa, has urged Muslim faithful to allow the lesson of the Eid el Kabir to reflect on their day to day contributions to the well-being of the populace. Atunwa in a statement issued in Ilorin yesterday by his Media Office also enjoined the people of the state irrespective of their religion beliefs continue to pray for the peace and unity of the country. The statement said that, the Muslims should shun all forms of actions that may impede the progress of the country and called on the government to live up to their expectations in the delivery of dividends of democracy to the doomed of the rural populace The opposition party, PDP in the state also felicitated with Muslim faithful on Eid-el-kabir celebrations. A statement by the State Chairman of the party, Hon. Kola Shittu, said that, “despite the present challenges confronting us a people, we definitely still have every cause to celebrate and express gratitude to God for keeping us alive to witness this joyous occasion.” He however admonished Muslim faithful in the State to celebrate in moderation and also use the opportunity of this festival to reflect on the teachings and virtues of Prophet Ibrahim.