Consumers of premium lager beer, Hero can begin to bank on their luck as the product of International Breweries Plc is set to reward them through a campaign tagged “Rise Like a Hero”.
The promo which promises to see winners of airtime and cash prizes ranging from N10,000 to N1,000,000 emerge will run nationwide. Speaking on the campaign, the Marketing Director, International Breweries, Tolulope Adedeji, revealed that Hero has set its sights on putting a smile on the face of its numerous consumers across Nigeria who have stuck with the brand over the years. She stated that the “Rise like a Hero” promo was Hero’s way of acknowledging the ambitious inimitable drive of Nigerians. “We are launching this promo to reward our consumers, most of whom are young, upwardly mobile, and enterprising men and women. We know these times are challenging for a lot of people who are affected by the economic crunch caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, yet continue to pursue their goals with fervour, and that’s why we decided to do something to inspire and reward the tenacity of the average Nigerian,” she said. Shedding more light on the mechanics of the promo which kicked off this month, Adedeji explained that consumers would get a chance to win instant airtime when they look under the crown of their favourite beer.
The promo is targeted at recognising and celebrating the tenacity and resilience of the average Nigerian. It is open to individuals who are 18 years old and over. Explaining further, the Marketing Director reiterated International Breweries’ commitment to complementing the effort of the government in actualising a society of healthy and happy people who are inspired to do more wherever they find themselves. According to her “As a brand that is committed to seeing its consumers thrive, whether they are trying to get a degree, on an upward trajectory in their career path, or looking to expand their business, Hero will be there to give them the desired push.” The nationwide campaign will run for eight weeks between August and September 2020 and promises to celebrate the resilient spirit of Nigerians.