Kayode Fasua in Abeokuta Sokoto State Governor, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal yesterday disclosed that the problem of banditry and kidnapping had largely been tackled in the state, putting an end to a vicious cycle of insecurity that engulfed the state for months. Tambuwal, Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party Governors’ Forum, added that internally displaced persons (IDPs) had started returning home now that insecurity had ended and peace restored in the eastern part of the state. He gave this update yesterday when he paid an unscheduled visit to former President Olusegun Obasanjo at the Presidential Library Complex in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital alongside five of his special advisers. In a statement by Obasanjo’s Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Akinyemi, Tambuwal said: “We have established peace in the eastern part of the state where we have a problem of banditry, kidnapping and criminalities. “Peace is returning and people are back to their farms and villages. Those in the IDPs camps are back in our homes and villages now. We are doing our best as a state government to ensure that we engender security. “We are doing our best to provide development and employment for our people. We are doing our best as a government to ensure that we engender security and provide development opportunities for Sokoto people.” During the visit, Tambuwal described Obasanjo as a statesman, who is still relevant for consultations on issues of governance and challenges in the country. After more than one and half an hour private session with the octogenarian, Tambuwal explained that the purpose of the visit was to recognize Obasanjo as an elder statesman and accord him the respect he deserves. The Sokoto governor said: “It is always good for us to come and see how he is doing, pay our normal homage to him as a respected leader in this country and consult him on very many issues of governance. “We brought him the greetings of the good people of Sokoto State. We continue to learn from and drink from his great wealth of experience; and his fountain of knowledge in his years of governance and challenges of today.” He prayed for the good health of the former resident and Nigerians in general, noting that the people of Nigeria would continue to learn from him. The governor hinted that they had a successful parley and he was happy that the elder statesman was in high spirits despite the Convid-19 atmosphere. He said: “You know Baba is our leader, statesman. It is always good for us to come around to see how he is doing, pay homage and consult him on very many issues of governance, that is why we have come this afternoon. “We brought him the greetings and felicitations of the good people of Sokoto state. We shall continue to learn from him, drink from his wealth of experience and fountain of his knowledge and wisdom on issues of governance and challenges of today. “We pray that God Almighty shall continue to give him good health as I have met him today, and may him and all of us survive this Covid-19,” he said. The governor, who arrived at about 2.30pm and left at 3.30pm.