By Ernest Chinwo Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, yesterday signed a contract worth N15.8 billion for the construction of the GRA Flyover and also the dualisation of the Ezimgbu Link Road and Tombia Road. This is as he said he would not politicise the development of the state.
The flyover is the fifth to be constructed in Port Harcourt by the present administration. While signing the contract, Wike reiterated his commitment to providing quality infrastructure that would enhance the development of the state.
He said the provisions of critical infrastructure would not be politicised because Rivers people deserve the best. “Today, we have signed the papers for the award of N15.8 billion contract for the GRA Flyover and also the dualisation of the Ezimgbu Link Road up to Stadium Road, and from Genesis Eatery Axis of Tombia Road up to Ikwerre Road. “It is unprecedented that a state can dream, commence and complete construction of five flyovers within a year. “We will pay Julius Berger Nigeria PLC, 70 per cent of the contract sum up front. This will make them to keep to the terms agreed on delivering the job within 12 months. “The rains cannot be used as an excuse because we are going to pay them. I trust the capacity of Julius Berger and I believe that Rivers State deserves the best,” he stated. The governor dismissed comments by critics that he was concentrating development on Port Harcourt to the detriment of other parts of the state. The governor maintained that any investment made in the state capital goes a long way to boost the image of the state. “We are providing infrastructure and roads in all the 23 local government areas. We are also at the point of constructing a road from Woji Town connecting Aleto- Alesa up to Port Harcourt Refinery junction. “That road will help the people of Okrika to access Port Harcourt within 10 minutes without going through the East West road,” he stated. Managing Director, Julius Berger Nigeria PLC, Dr. Lars Ritchter, said they are delighted to be part of the success story of Wike’s administration. He pointed out that they started with polehole contracts in 2015, and has since constructed 19 Roads, in addition to the Port Harcourt Pleasure Park, Ecumenical Centre, Cinema and Restaurant. Ritchter also said two of the three flyovers started in October 2019 would be delivered by December and the third one in February 2021.