The Benin Technical College Alumni, England, has applauded the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration for revamping the college, now known as Government Science and Technical College (GSTC), after several years of neglect. The President of the Alumni body, Mr. Nosa Igbinidu, who was represented by Prof. Deborah Odejimi, gave the commendation during the presentation of teaching and learning materials to the college, in Benin City. The group donated 10 sets of all-in-one computers with fully installed and licenced Microsoft Office software; industrial photocopier; Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) units and core textbooks to the resource centre of the college. Igbinidu said the donation of the materials was in line with the group’s policies and objectives and their conscious decision to support the state government in improving the pedagogy and study experience of the students and working condition of teachers and staff of the college. According to him, “The Alumni body has followed with amazement the transformation of the Benin Technical College into a world class technical and vocational institution by the administration of Governor Godwin Obaseki. It is sad that previous administrations allowed this flagship college to degenerate into a state of disrepair. “We have noted that for several years the college struggled to fulfill its primary objective as a skills acquisition centre in an era of mass youth unemployment. This is why we commend wholeheartedly Governor Obaseki for providing visionary leadership using technical education.” Representative of the Commissioner for Science and Technology and Director in the ministry, Mr. Jonathan Ukpebor, expressed appreciation to the old students, adding “We are very delighted to be part of this history-making event. We want to sincerely thank the old students for organising this great event. “As a government, we have been able to identify the critical roles of professionals and non-governmental organisations in our vision for the college and for this reason we are collaborating with any such group that is working in line with the vision and mission of the governor. “The old students have been able to add colour to what the state government is doing. I want to reiterate that there is nowhere in the world where education is solely funded by the government, hence the need for such collaborations.”