The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Caretaker Committee in the South-west region, Hon. Dayo Ogungbrnro, has dismissed insinuations in some political quarters that some governors elected on the platform of the party are throwing their weight behind the candidate of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Mr. Agboola Ajayi, in the forthcoming governorship election in Ondo State. It was reported that Ajayi, the current deputy governor of the state, defected to the PDP from the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the governorship primary of the party, but promptly dumped the party after being defeated by Eyitayo Jegede (SAN) in a primary widely adjudged as credible and fair. In a statement issued in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, yesterday, the PDP bigwig challenged the authors of what he called misleading reports to provide evidence that any PDP governor was backing Ajayi for the Ondo State governorship seat. He said: “PDP will never work with a renegade and political turncoat whose ambition is not grounded in reality. It is a mark of hypocrisy for those who could not abide by the result of a demonstrably free and fair governorship primary to be planting fake news in the media suggesting that they are being sponsored by PDP governors in other states. “For the avoidance of doubt, PDP governors, members in Ondo State and the people of the state are all solidly behind the candidate of our party and incoming governor of Ondo State, Eyitayo Jegede (SAN). They are doing everything within their power and within the laws of the land to ensure that he emerges the governor of the state. This is the reality, nothing else. “It is apparent that the 2016 governorship election was manipulated in favour of the present APC government. Even the revelations coming from within its ranks attest to that. But this time around, PDP and the people of the state are fully aware of its dirty antics and had mobilised to stop them.” According to Ogungbenro, when Ajayi came calling, the party opened its door to him thinking that he would add value to it, not knowing that he was a sly and desperate politician. He added that Ajayi had spent barely five weeks in the party before he jumped ship, saying PDP governors would never support such a character who betrayed the confidence reposed in him.