Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja The Archbishop of Abuja Catholic Diocese, Ignatius Kaigama yesterday added his voice to that of prominent Christians who have condemned the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) 2020. He said the federal government’s motive behind CAMA is bad, adding that it should be reviewed to avoid a crisis in the country. Kaigama spoke in Abuja during his Pallium investiture ceremony by the Antonio Filipazzi Apostolic Nuncio to Nigeria, Most Rev. Antonio Filipazzi. On August 7, 2020, President Muhammadu Buhari assented to CAMA 2020, which repeals and replaces the Companies and Allied Matters Act, 1990. The controversial Section 839 (1) and (2) provides that religious bodies and non-governmental organisations will be strictly regulated by the Registrar-General of Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) and a supervising minister. The law also wields power to suspend the trustees of an association or a religious body and appoint an interim manager or managers to coordinate its affairs where it reasonably believes that there had been any misconduct or mismanagement, or where the affairs of the association are being run fraudulently or where it is necessary or desirable for the purpose of public interest. Kaigama said: “Our experts are dealing with the issue of CAMA. It is not something we can just talk about anyhow. This needs careful analysis and we are doing that. “But on the surface. It doesn’t look as if there is a good intension to it. It doesn’t look that the motive is right. It doesn’t look like enough study was done about the implications of how this law is going to be. “And now that they know, I hope prudence and wise judgment will lead our authorities to humbly start all over and see how this law does no generate unprecedented problems for our country, and destroy the little peace we have.” On the killings in some parts of the country, Kaigama said the federal and state governments, including stakeholders must change their approaches in handling security issues across the country. He also affirmed that there is no political will to tackle the crisis. “Why should the killings go on for year after year? Why should innocent people sleep in dark places in the villages be killed? And every time we say we are on top of the situation. “When can we really deal with the situation not just being on top? Southern Kaduna represents many other areas in Nigeria. The minority groups who are suffering all kinds of injustice and unfair treatment revolt when they are pushed to the wall. “So the government must address fundamental, historical, and justice issues. They know what the problem is but, they lack the political will to deal with these unending killings and this is what is causing this violence. The government must do something. “Our security agencies must be objective and committed to the common good of all Nigerians”.