Check Point Software Technologies Ltd, a leading provider of cybersecurity solutions globally, has announced a new partnership with edX, a trusted Harvard and MIT-founded online learning platform used by 30 million learners as well as the world’s top-ranking universities and industry-leading companies globally. The partnership will offer a growing series of Check Point cyber-security courses and content to security and network professionals.
Check Point’s cyber-security courses will now be accessible through the edX platform, including the Check Point Jump Start series, which features network and hyperscale network security courses. According to the security company, further modules would soon be available on Check Point’s CloudGuard cloud security and SMB security solutions. All courses aim at upskilling students or IT professionals on cyber-threats and security management, as well as those looking to start a new career in the sector. All Check Point courses available on the edX platform are free of charge to remove the barrier of cost, location, and access to help reduce the skills gap, the company said, adding that recent research shows that nearly two-thirds of organisations reported a shortage of cyber-security staff last year, with 36 per cent citing a lack of skilled or experienced security personnel as their number one workplace concern. Vice President of Learning and Training at Check Point Software Technologies, Liat Doron, said: “Partnering with the renowned edX platform enables us to help close the ongoing cyber-security skills gap. With the global shortage having passed four million, organizations need to accelerate efforts to try and help change this ongoing issue. “Working with edX, combined with our other initiatives such as SecureAcademy, will help tackle these global skills shortages and attract the next generation of cyber-security professionals.” The partnership with edX further demonstrates Check Point’s ongoing commitment to providing essential education and training within the sector, helping to attract more people into the industry and grant easy access to learning materials.