Edache Obe, the famous CEO of Dacheo Media and branding has maintained that there’s need for the Nigerian youth to be passionate and consistent in their respective fields of businesses. The 34 year-old, Benue state born creative entrepreneur said this in a recent interview with Thisday, emphasizing on the need for the younger generation to work smart. He said, “My advice to young people is to consistently keep doing what they are passionate about and never give up on the dreams they believe in. I would advice them to work smart and always keep looking for the right opportunity to sell their services as it will always come knocking every now and then.” Relating his advice to the initial hurdles he faced in his digital branding business, the young and creative CEO recalls, “At the initial kick off of my business, the challenges I had could be linked to lack of proper information around digital platforms so, it was not really considered by brands as a viable marketing option. But with the recent exposure, brands are now fully aware of the impact this has for their businesses. I also experienced the challenges around getting the right platforms to push campaigns for brands as they would always insist on platforms they thought is best for their brands.” Just as the government is gradually easing the COVID-19 lockdown especially on those running hospitality businesses, Dacheo with his remarkable wealth of knowledge in branding rolls out the best modus operandi for bars and restaurants to maintain the COVID-19 preventive measures and guidelines. In his words, “I believe bars and restaurants should have a limit to the amount of people that can be allowed in at any given time to reduce the risk of infection and spread. I will like to believe that proper sanitization will be done by bars and restaurants before entry to the location. It will also be important to ensure some level of spacing in the outlet to reduce potential spread of the virus. Currently a lot of restaurants have adopted the delivery mode of operation to reduce the risk. I strongly believe that this should still continue for now.”