By John Shiklam The Sabon Gari Local Government Area of Kaduna State has enacted a bye-law to regulate the sale of liquor, prohibition of prostitution and indecent dressing, including “excessive make-ups or jewelry by women in the area.” The bye-law, which is already in force, was signed by the council Chairman, Mohammed Ibrahim Usman, on June 10, 2020, causing serious concern among residents of the area. It was learnt that several groups, including operators of beer parlours in the area, have kicked against the bye-Law, vowing to challenge it in court. The law prohibits men from plaiting or wearing or curling their hair, wearing of dirty, tattered, worn out jeans, earrings or nose rings; wearing of singlet or garment with offensive or provocative messages or writing publicly; display of inner wears and unkempt appearances among others. Tagged as ‘Control and regulation of sale of liquor and/or spirit and other related offences (Regulation/Prohibition), Bye Law No. 2 of 2020’, it prohibits women from “wearing short and skimpy dresses publicly, which expose vital parts of the body such as back, breast and hip. “Wearing of micro or miniskirts or gowns above the knee publicly, wearing of tight trousers publicly without proper overall garments reaching below the knee. “Putting on undergarments publicly, wearing of transparent or revealing garments publicly without putting on proper and appropriate under wears. Also, putting on dirty tattered or worn-out jeans/garments publicly. “Also, the law is against putting on provocative or offensive outfits publicly as well as excessive use of make-ups or jewelries.” However, Dambai, a popular local boxing competition among the people, is to be regulated while prostitution is a prohibited. The sale of liquor is also to be regulated in all parts of the local government area. Consequently, all existing liquor licence issued by the council prior to the commencement of the bye-law had been revoked for fresh licences. The law provides that “all liquor licence shall not be issued to any person(s) for the purpose of sale, marketing, and distribution of liquor and/or spirit unless all the prescribed processes are fulfilled.” According to the bye-law, “Any person who overtly sells or displays liquor/ spirit in a place other than a licenced facility or other places approved by the law, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not less than six months or a fine of not less N50,000.” Similarly, anyone who “owns, keeps or operates a warehouse for the stocking, marketing or distribution of liquor and/or spirit without licence commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not less than one year or a fine of not less than N100,000 or both.” Furthermore the law prescribed one year jail term or a fine of N100,000 or both for anyone found guilty of selling or offering liquor to a person below the age of 18. For the offence of prostitution, “it shall be unlawful for any person to hold out himself or herself as a prostitute or engage in such trade throughout the area. “It shall be unlawful to operate or use any premises or brothel for prostitution throughout the area.”