By Adibe Emenyonu Wife of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Edo State governorship election slated for September 19, Prof. Idia Ize-Iyamu, has assured women of the state of plans in her husband’ Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu’s manifesto, the SIMPLE agenda, to empower and support women with investments in the businesses and protection against abuse. She gave this assurance while speaking at a campaign rally at Uzebba, Owan West Local Government Council on Sunday. The professor of dentistry alongside other Edo APC Women leaders including the wife of the Deputy Governorship candidate, Hajia Nana Audu, and the APC State woman leader, Mrs. Betty Okoebor, met with supporters from Owan West, Owan East, and Akoko Edo councils who all declared their support for the APC and promised to vote the party at the polls. She said Pastor Ize-Iyamu had plans to expand the trade and businesses of the women with government support, improve security, especially in rural communities to ensure the protection of women and other residents, and to care for the elderly. In her words, “we are here to tell you that our governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, will boost your businesses, create jobs for your children, and take care of your welfare.” “He will also support your farming activities and ensure your markets have water and toilet facilities” She said being a medical practitioner, she would assist her husband to revamp the health sector of the state if elected. “Most of our hospitals lack doctors, nurses, drugs; I will contribute my professional experience to ensure that all these are provided in our state government hospitals so that you can access good medical services.” “I will ensure that elderly people and children with special needs get access to free medical services”. She says Pastor Ize-Iyamu will address the infrastructure decay in the state, especially in the education sector to improve learning in the state and ensure that children, including those in rural communities, gain access to quality education in conducive environments.