Ugo Aliogo The Sports Industry Working Group (SIWG) which consists of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG), the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development and sector stakeholders has presented the National Sports Industry Policy (NSIP) draft document to the Minister for Youth and Sports development, Mr. Sunday Dare. In a statement disclosed to THISDAY by the Nigeria Economic Summit Group (NESG), the Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Gabriel Aduda lauded the SIWG for their effort and reminded everyone of the need to take the draft through validation processes before seeking final approval from the Federal Executive Council. In his remarks, the minister said: “We have seen synergy, energy and collaborative spirit that has led the process this far. I want to assure Nigerians that this work will stand the test of time and provide the needed transformation for our sports industry.” He assured Nigerians that the work would stand the test of time and provide the needed transformation for Nigeria’s sports industry. “Our work is not done yet. For the remaining steps, we must work together. The reviewed sports draft we see today will bring about a new dawn and help move sports from being wholly recreational to being a business. The draft policy is a bold statement to Nigeria and the international community that this country means business, we hope by September, the ministry will present the draft for approval to the federal executive council,” he added. The Facilitator of the Tourism, Hospitality, entertainment, creative and Sports as a business (THECS) Policy Commission of the NESG, Dr. Ikenna Nwosu while noted that the SIWG is a public-private dialogue that employed wide consultations to serve as a basis for opening the sports sector to new revenue streams. The Head of the Sports Industry Thematic Group of the THECS policy commission of the NESG, Mrs. Nkechi Obi revealed that the presentation of the national sports policy draft document was a result of three years of hard work that included wide consultations and deliberations to obtain the best possible policy draft for Nigeria’s sports industry. In his remarks, the director at the Federal ministry of youth and sports development, Mr. Peter Nelson expressed appreciation to members of the public and private sector and all stakeholders for their input in the policy draft document, adding that it would help transform the country’s sports industry into an alternative revenue source. The presentation of the NSIP followed almost two years of deliberations and presentations from the 25th Nigerian Economic Summit which was followed by the first ever Inter-ministerial session on Sports industry development, signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the private sector represented by the NESG and the federal ministry of youth and sports development and several stakeholders engagement sessions of professionals drawn from investment institutions, trade groups, donor agencies, educational institutions, media and the entertainment industry.