Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has said that it will increase daily gas production from 260,000 to 500,000 standard cubic feet per day in the next two years. The Group Managing Director of the corporation, Mallam Mele Kyari revealed the plan recently while inspecting Oredo Integrated Gas Handling Plant Facility (IGHF), which belongs to the NPDC in Ologbo, Edo State. After completing the gas plant, Kyari said Nigeria would be sufficient in liquefied petroleum gas, stressing that the facility was awarded in 2015 but work commenced in 2017, and would be completed in October this year. He said the production of 500, 000 cubic feet per day would be achieved in the next two years, adding that a series of projects and activities had been lined up to achieve this. He noted that NPDC was producing about 136, 000 standard cubic feet (scf) per day, noting however, that with improvement, the company is now producing 260,000 scf per day, which he described as a magnificent level of growth in the upstream company. “A year ago, NPDC was producing about 136 000 barrels per day. But today, we are producing 260, 000 barrels per day. This is a very magnificent level of growth in any upstream company. Our target is to take this company to a production level of 500, 000 cubic feet per day. “This is possible within two years. We have lined up a series of projects and activities in these regards. We have the highest number of rings running in this country. Five rings running at the same time, adding incremental value, and delivering major projects which will ultimately take production to 500 000 targets. “NPDC, being an indigenous company, contributes about a billion standard cubic feet of gas production to the entire mix of production, adding that majority of it goes into the domestic market,” NNPC’s helmsman said Kyari added that NPDC “is a company 100 percent owned by Nigeria, and we are delivering it to be number one upstream company in this country. “With the support and alignment of all the stakeholders particularly the support we are getting from President Muhammadu Buhari, we are delivering this company as the number one upstream company. “We are optimistic that gas will now be delivered without interruption into the domestic market; supply of crude oil to the international market by our own company and through our own control will be justified.” Today, the largest contributor of gas to the domestic market particularly the power sector is NPDC. This is a national responsibility and a commercial venture with a national outlook. Earlier, NPDC Managing Director, Mansur Sambo, had said that with the plant, gas would now be delivered without interruption into the domestic market.