Alex Enumah in Abuja The Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN) has denied witch-hunting of a lawyer, Mr. Victor Giwa over his alleged refusal to testify against former Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu who is being investigated by a presidential panel on corruption allegations. The denial which was contained in a statement issued yesterday by the Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations, Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Dr. Umar Gwandu, stated that, “The Honourable Attorney-General never met Giwa and has never discussed any issue with the so-called Donald Wokoma nor asked anybody, personally or by proxy, to engage the so-called Victor to testify against Magu. He argued that the AGF was not the one who set up the investigation panel to probe Magu and as such was not saddled with any responsibility to procure witness(es) for the panel. “The attention of the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice has been drawn to a flimsy allegation made by one, Victor Giwa, accusing the Honourable Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) of conniving with one Donald Wokoma to witch-hunt him over what he termed as “his refusal to testify against Ibrahim Magu” at the ongoing retired Justice Ayo Sami-Led Presidential Panel probing the suspended Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu. “The Attorney-General of the Federation is never a member of the panel nor does it fall within the realm of the AGF’s authority to invite witness(es) for a presidential probe panel. The claim by Victor Giwa, is therefore fictitious, unfounded and figment of imagination of mischief makers who want to create unnecessary attention and tarnish the good image of the Attorney-general of the Federation and Minister of Justice and laboring incessantly, these days, to falsely cast aspersion on the AGF’s hard earned reputation,” the statement read in part. The statement, however challenged the Victor Giwa to come out with facts to substantiate his allegation. Giwa had in a statement he issued on Sunday shortly after he was released from EFCC custody, reportedly accused Malami of ordering his arrest because he refused to implicate Magu. The lawyer was arrested alongside one Fatima Hassan last week shortly after they testified before the Salami-led panel which is investigating Magu.