By Omon-Julius Onabu The Delta State monarchs have taken a tough stance against impostors and usurpers in the state, vowing to flush out from the system self-styled traditional rulers and those who ascend royal stools in communities without due process. Rising from a meeting in Asaba on Saturday, the traditional rulers under the canopy of Delta State Council of Traditional Rulers (DSCTR) vowed that such imposters would face the full wrath of the law as the council has recommended to the Delta State Government and security agencies appropriate penalties for the infraction in order to check the menace for security reasons. The traditional rulers expressed worry that the action of these self-imposed ‘kings’ has continued to constitute a great threat to the peace and security of communities in Delta State. The warning was contained in a five-point communiqué issued by the DSCTR at the end of the meeting. The Chairman of the DSCTR, Dr. Emmanuel Efeizomor II, who read the communique, urged the state government and security agencies to promptly investigate individuals who had declared themselves king and bring them to book as a way of restoring peace and order in such communities. The monarchs also deliberated on the issue of rampant cases of rape in the society and called on operators of the country’s judicial system to do away with unnecessary technicalities, which have often impeded diligent prosecution of culprits. They also urged victims and their parents to speak up to enable security agencies investigate and deal decisively with culprits. Earlier, the Delta State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Peter Mrakpor, briefed the council members on efforts of the government to stem the rising cases of rape and bring culprits to justice. The traditional rulers also enjoined state government to facilitate the early take off of community policing in the state that is code-named ‘’Operation Delta Hawk’’ in order to deal decisively with security issues in the state. The monarchs appealed to the public to always avail the police and security agencies with useful information that could help in crime prevention and detection.