As the gubernatorial election in Edo State draws nearer, a civil society organisation, No Sidon Look, has drummed up support for the reelection of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate and Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, vowing to mobilise Edo people to put an end to godfatherism during the September 19, 2020 poll. The group said it was shocking to see how the sacked national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, was aspiring to be the new Edo godfather after the people supported him to defeat godfatherism in the state. Speaking during a voter education campaign in Benin City, Director General of the organisation, Mr. Portrait Peterson, lambasted the national leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for interfering in political affairs in Edo State. Peterson noted: “We as a people refuse to fold our hands and watch the rape of our democracy repeated as was the case with Bola Ahmed Tinubu the self-acclaimed ‘King of Kings’ of Lagos State, where Akinwunmi Ambode, the immediate past governor of the state was unjustly removed from office, and compelled to step down against the will of the good people of Lagos State. “No political party should be bigger than its electorate, hence we say no to godfatherism in Edo State; Edo doesn’t belong to one man; Edo is not Lagos. We call on all Edolites, home and in the Diaspora to get their voters’ cards ready and come out en masse on September 19, 2020 to say no to these selfish politicians who are on a self-serving mission to put the entire Edo State in their pockets.” Urging Edo people to ensure the reelection of the PDP candidate, the group maintained that “to sustain and boost the state’s economy, the Obaseki-led government identified six areas on which the administration’s political economy would rest. The six areas include culture and tourism, sports, economic development, environmental sustainability, institutional reforms, infrastructural development and social welfare.