FIFA is joining forces with the African Union, the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Confederation of African Football (CAF) to jointly address the issue of domestic violence by launching the #SafeHome campaign across the African continent. The duo of Emmanuel Amuneke and Asisat Oshoala are among leading African football personalities in the #SafeHome campaign launched yesterday across Africa is part of a wider global initiative to raise awareness on this critical issue. In Africa, the awareness videos feature other seven football stars – Abel Xavier, Sarah Essam, Khalilou Fadiga, Geremi, Rabah Madjer, Lúcia Moçambique and Clémentine Touré – who conveyed a series of key messages to the public. The campaign is being published on various FIFA digital channels and African Union and WHO channels. #SafeHome is also being supported by multimedia toolkits for FIFA’s member associations and for media to help facilitate additional localisation and to further amplify the message worldwide. The initiative is designed to support women and children victims of domestic violence, particularly as stay-at-home measures in response to Covid-19 have put them at greater risk. A number of African football stars are supporting the campaign via video awareness messages distributed on social and traditional media. The African Union-FIFA-CAF memorandum of understanding, which was concluded in February 2019, covers joint campaigns on topics of mutual interest and the promotion of gender equality, a key principle. Other areas of collaboration include education through football, sports integrity and safety and security at football matches. “I am glad that today we can launch this campaign on the important topic of domestic violence, which is significantly exacerbated by Covid-19 lockdown conditions and movement restrictions, together with our partners, the African Union, WHO and CAF,” said FIFA President Gianni Infantino. “It is our duty to leverage the immense popularity of football in Africa to raise awareness on this societal challenge with a very clear message: violence has no place in homes, just as it has no place in football.” H.E. Amira Elfadil, African Union Commissioner for Social Affairs, emphasised: ’’The African Union Commission is resolute and committed to the protection of women and girls. We recognise and align ourselves with FIFA, CAF and the World Health Organization and other stakeholders on the efforts aimed at preventing abuse and domestic-based violence through collaborative programming that links reconstruction, access to the continuum of service, addressing the underlying social norms and harmful practices that continue to perpetuate gender-based violence and inequality, as well as community awareness and empowerment. We align ourselves to leverage the popular appeal of football to raise awareness against domestic violence, particularly as stay-at-home measures in response to COVID-19 are in place.’’ “Violence against women is a major threat to women’s health and that of their children,” said Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General. “It is also a grave violation of human rights – and it must end now. WHO is proud to stand with FIFA, the African Union and CAF to launch this campaign across Africa to bring attention to this critical issue. We are committed to a world where women live free from violence and discrimination.” CAF President Ahmad Ahmad stated: “Whether at home or on the pitch, everyone is entitled to respect and safety. Domestic, physical or moral violence, especially against women and children, must be condemned. Do not be afraid or ashamed to seek help if you are a victim of violence in your own home. If you are a witness to violence, intervene or get help, but do not stay silent: remaining silent is to be guilty of complicity. Never forget that everyone has a right to live in safety in their own home.”