By Vanessa Obioha The new reality TV show, ‘Love Come Back,’ from MultiChoice Nigeria which premiered on Sunday, August 3, on Africa Magic Showcase aims to give lovers a second chance. Hosted by actor Ibrahim Suleiman, the show acts as the superhero of relationships, saving lovers from calling it quits over issues that can be resolved amicably. Like any well-scripted reality show, a dose of drama and entertainment are essential props. In ‘Love Come Back’, Suleiman and his team are tasked to create grand gestures that will make the coldest heart warm. In its first episode, we see them embarking on this journey with passion and dedication. The first rescue mission for the team is Austin, a model, and businessman who has tried to win back the love of his ex-girlfriend, Nonye who is an upcoming fashion designer. He narrated how he met Nonye at a friend’s shop in Ikeja.
He approached her under the guise of patronizing her business and got her number. After a series of calls and conversations, they started dating. But things weren’t so smooth. Austin explained to Ibrahim that their love had gone sour because, at the initial stage of their relationship, he was too busy with his hustle to invest much time in the relationship. When he eventually decided to dedicate more time to the relationship, it was a little too late. Nonye had lost interest. After all his efforts to win her back proved futile, Austin approached Ibrahim and the ‘Love Come Back’ team to intervene. They decided to surprise Nonye with a well-thought-out grand gesture – a photoshoot session styled by popular designer, Ejiro Amos Tafiri, to help boost her fashion brand. Nonye was enjoying the whole experience until she found out Austin was behind the plan. As soon as he walked into the set, her whole mood changed. She told him that while she appreciated the thought that went into the plan, it wouldn’t change the situation of things between them. Not even the intervention by Ibrahim would make her change her mind. The tension in the air was palpable and Austin was almost in tears. But just when he thought all hope was lost, Nonye suddenly had a change of heart. She said she took a few minutes to think about everything and that the fact that Austin went that length to win her back shows that he really cares for her. They walked out of the show, a happy couple. The pay-TV company this year has been rolling out relationship-styled reality Tv shows. From ‘Ultimate Love’ to ‘Mercy and Ike,’ ‘Love Come Back’ is another project that will hopefully become a fan’s favourite and fetch more audience for the entertainment and media company. The show airs on Sundays at 6:30 pm on DStv Channel 151 for Premium and Compact Plus customers.