The Managing Director of Nigerian Export Processing Zones Authority, Prof Adesoji Adesugba has called on investors in the Halal industry from all over the world to patronise the free trade zones ahead of the commencement of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AFCTA). Adesugba made the call recently while speaking at a webinar organised by the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry on the role of free trade zones in the booming halal global business. He said the FTZs offer juicy incentives to halal investors who could use Nigeria as a key point for the production value chain, reeling out statistics that confirmed Nigeria as a huge market with adjacent countries. Adesugba said Investors “should not just consider Nigerian population, but strategically review the entire West African market extending to the entire sub-Saharan Africa as markets of opportunities which can be serviced through Nigerian production. “Investors should see beyond Nigerian huge population. Nigeria is a representative of African market. So investing in Nigeria is a bold entrance into African market. Halal investors should count on robust investment infrastructure provided by the over 40 FTZs all over the country. “You are offered opportunities that guarantee ease of take off and flourishing operations. We offer a tax free regime and free import duties on imported raw materials. You will be able to access generous incentives”, the managing director said. Elaborating further at the webinar attended by stakeholders from all over the world, the NEPZA boss stated that the free zones authority under his leadership was open to local and foreign investors in the halal industry, describing the sector as growing exponentially worldwide. He said: “I agree we, as a nation, need to address the issue of standardisation and regulations. But we want to assure investors that Nigeria through NEPZA is open for business. You are free to enter an existing zone or you can even apply for a private zone. All opportunities are at your doorstep.” The webinar was attended by the Grand Mufti of Nigeria, Sheikh Sahrif Saleh; Naccima President, Hajia Sarah Iya Aliyu; Prince Adetokunbo Kayode, President, Abuja Chamber of Commerce and other stakeholders.