Martins Ifijeh Worldwide, it is estimated that people spend over $3.5billion yearly in an attempt to treat and restore their hair. Sadly, this huge sum of money is mostly spent on unqualified individuals, unsuitable products and unproven treatments that rarely give positive results. In addition, there are many hair loss myths and misconceptions in Africa that continue to make it harder for sufferers to get professional expertise in treating hair loss. Hair loss affects millions of men and women each day and research carried out by dermatologists affirm that one in two men will experience hair loss in their lifetime whilst one in four women will suffer from hair loss or thinning hair. In addition, a third of women of African descent have traction alopecia (a form of hair loss due to the pulling of the hair at the edges). August is National Hair Loss Awareness Month and it is a global celebration aimed at raising awareness on hair loss causes, prevention, management and treatment in both men and women. As one of the leading hair restoration clinic in Africa, Vinci Hair Clinic has said it will be championing the national hair loss awareness month campaign by embarking on a series of activities/events throughout the month of August. The CEO, Vinci Hair Clinic Africa, Ayo Otubanjo said the clinic will be hosting a first-of-its-kind Global Hair Loss Conference in Nigeria and Ghana themed ‘Hair Restored, Confidence Secured’. Otubanjo said: “The goal is to enlighten and affirm that hair loss has a cure, in addition to showcasing the world-class medical expertise available locally. “The public will be enlightened on hair loss; the different types and causes and treatment options available to help men and women suffering from hair loss. The clinic will also be giving out freebies throughout the month including discount vouchers, free consultations with Vinci’s top hair loss experts, and customised souvenirs, amongst others. “We are excited to embark on a range of educational and informative activities in celebration of National Hair Loss Awareness Month this August. “Vinci has a reputation and professionalism that is second to none in delivering cutting edge expert hair restoration treatments. Our mission is to provide Africans with the best hair restoration solutions locally. “As part of a global group, we adhere to international standards of quality in our clinics, and our highly trained staff have a high degree of expertise and competence. We are proof that there is absolutely no need to go abroad to seek the quality treatment our clients desire.”