Peter Uzoho President Muhammadu Buhari has led other eminent Nigerians to felicitate with a former Deputy Chief of Staff to the President, Prince Olusola Akanmode, who marked his 70th birthday today. Joining the president in congratulating Akanmode were the Ooni of Ife, Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi; Emeritus Chairman of Kogi State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Hassan Salau; and former Military Governor of Kwara State, Gen. Alwali Jauji Kazir (rtd). In a statement issued yesterday by the Senior Special Assistant to the Present on Media and Publicity, Mr. Garba Shehu, Buhari prayed that God will continue to bless and strengthen Akanmode with good health and prosperity. According to the statement, “President Buhari joins family members, friends and political associates in celebrating with the former Secretary to the State Government, Kogi State, who brought his wealth of experience, maturity and wisdom to serve in the Presidency, leaving a legacy of integrity and kindness. The trio of Ogunwusi, Kazir and Salau, in their separate messages to Akanmode yesterday expressed happiness that he has joined the league of septuagenarians. Ogunwusi in a congratulatory message he signed, said Akanmode was known for due process, uprightness, and fairness, pointing out that he built the current future, which he is enjoying. He said Akanmode’s life of handwork and persistence, which he put in place as a young man, would be a source of motivation to the youth. Ooni said: “Early enough, he recognised the irreplaceable place of education as a factor towards having a successful career while he equally served his beloved country diligently as a committed public servant. On his part, Kazir recounted the cordial relationship and the wondeful experiences he had while working with Akanmode as the military governor of Kwara State. According to Kazir, “As the Director General of Government House, Sola, you were a vibrant officer in your forties, with a razor-sharp mind, who brought to bear on the job, the knowledge and experience of a much older person. “You were a highly articulate, committed, dutiful and enterprising staff. These attributes would endear you to so many of your colleagues and fellow staff officers in the governor’s office and indeed the entire state government at the time.” On his part, Salau who thanked God for the life of their mentor, Akanmode, said the celebrant’s years in Kwara State Government House had always been their rallying point. “In Kogi State, he stands out as a collosus that we can’t come by today and in future. All I will say and always is that he is the Awolowo of our time. “At seventy, my esteemed mentor is strong and stands above his peers. Congratulations our leader of inestimable value. My esteemed regards and best wishes always,” he added.