Eat’N’Go limited, one of the leading QSR operators in Nigeria and Franchisee of Domino’s Pizza and Cold Stone Creamery has opened its 110th store in Nigeria across its three brands (including Pinkberry Gourmet Frozen Yoghurt). This achievement came after the two brands opened their 50th stores respectively in Badore Ajah, Lagos state on 24th July 2020 This expansion even amid the pandemic was born out of the desire of the company to extend its brands’ reach to more consumers, providing more customers easy access to their products and services. With this new development, Eat’N’Go, the parent company of the two brands now boasts of a total of 110 stores across Nigeria. Celebrating this milestone, customers were hosted to a thrilling virtual party with Mr. Macaroni where he engaged and gave out free products to multiple winners. Speaking on the expansion, Chief Executive Officer, Eat’N’Go Limited, Patrick McMichael, expressed gratitude to their customers and staff as well as reiterated the company’s commitment to tirelessly ensure customers’ satisfaction. He said, “We extend our immense gratitude to all our customers, partners, stakeholders, and staff members who have shown continued love and loyalty to our brands since our arrival into the market in 2012; your unwavering support has kept us afloat even amid the pandemic. “Being our customer, your utmost satisfaction and comfort is at the core of our existence, and this is why we have decided to open a new outlet, to further bring our delicious and yummy products a step closer to you.”
Also speaking on this expansion, Marketing Director of the company, Ilyas Kazeem said, “We are extremely elated about the 50th store milestone for Domino’s Pizza and Cold Stone Creamery respectively, as it’s not only a testament to our growth trajectory but also a new opportunity to serve our customers better. “For Domino’s Pizza and Cold Stone Creamery, we continuously seek out new ways to uphold the brand’s promise of providing yummy and delicious treats to all our customers. This, we have done, and we will continue to do. With both brands, customers will continue to enjoy uncompromised quality.”