Three Crowns, Nigeria’s leading low cholesterol and heart-friendly milk, has announced the start of ‘Jara’ campaign to deliver more value to consumers, especially mums who have done well by their families in the face of COVID-19 challenges. The ‘Jara’ campaign will run simultaneously across all trade channels including the open retail market and neighborhood stores in Lagos, Abuja, Ibadan, Ilorin, Aba, Benin and Enugu till October 2020. To participate in the campaign, shoppers are required to buy products worth N3,000 or N5,000 within a selection of Three Crowns product range including the refill pouch, big family pack refill pouch and evaporated milk in cans; to win free sachets of milk and lots of gifts. This offer is valid while stocks and gifts last. Explaining the purpose of the campaign, the Marketing Manager, Three Crowns Omolara Banjoko said that the brand aims at ensuring mothers in particular and other consumers of Three Crowns milk get more value for their purchase – that is the ‘jara’ which means ‘extra.’ “‘Jara’ is our ‘Thank you’ from Three Crowns to all purchasing mums for all they do for their families, especially in these uncertain times, which have impacted the spending power of many families to provide adequate nutrition” Banjoko said. “If a consumer buys N3,000 or N5,000 worth of products within the refill pouch, big family pack refill pouch and evaporated milk in cans range, they would instantly receive gifts and extra milk at no extra cost” Banjoko further explained, adding that Three Crowns brand ambassadors would be stationed at retail stores to reward shoppers that buy within the specified assortments. As an extension of the campaign and to create excitement at these retail outlets, there would be consumer activation on certain days of the week where shoppers can also buy to participate in the “Plan a Healthy Breakfast or Smoothie Puzzle Challenge.” Shoppers who participate in this challenge are required to create a healthy breakfast or smoothie within a time frame to win exciting gifts. Digital savvy Three Crowns fans are also not left out. The ‘Jara’ campaign includes product puzzles for Three Crowns evaporated and powdered milk, cooking sessions and an exciting family dance series. Giving more details, the Brand Manager, Three Crowns, Chioma Otisi-Igwe, said that each activity would be posted on the brand’s social media stories. “We encourage people to participate with their friends and family members to win exciting prizes which include product freebies and shopping vouchers. During the campaign, there will be an Instagram live cooking session as an opportunity for mums and their families to prepare healthy breakfasts with chefs. Entries will be judged based on creativity and meal presentation, and rewarded with shopping vouchers and other exciting gifts. In September, there will be a digital Family Dance Off during which a choreographed dance in traditional attire will be created and posted. Consumers will then be asked to recreate the video showing their mums and family members representing their tribe. Posted and properly tagged videos will be collated and judged to reveal the top five (5) entries; which will be selected and posted on the brand’s page for followers to pick the top three (3) winning families. Entries will be judged according to the synergy and creativity in each dance routine created. Freebies and shopping vouchers are guaranteed. Appraising the entire campaign, Banjoko excitedly disclosed, “Through this campaign, we will be highlighting and elevating how Three Crowns cares for the heart and in particular, mums’ hearts as Three Crowns milk continues to inspire and engender different things a healthy heart can do.” Running till October 2020, the ‘Jara’ campaign by Three Crowns is another exciting reward programme, which promises to make this second half of the year memorable for all its consumers. Three Crowns milk is a leading Nigerian brand from the stable of FrieslandCampina WAMCO, Nigeria’s foremost dairy company. The Company believes that milk is an essential nutrient for every individual. As Nigeria’s leading low cholesterol milk brand, Three Crowns has nourished mothers and their families for more than 30 years with essential vitamins and minerals that support their well-being.