By Ferdinand Ekechukwu Nollywood celebrity, Ini Edo is one actress who sure knows what she does best and how to put her best foot forward. When she’s not on set, it’s like a routine to see the fashionista post pictures of her stunning curvy postures to the delight of her colleagues and fans, aside spending her off acting periods watching movies and listening to music. “Brown Sugar”, as she is fondly called by friends has really upped her style and fashion stake. A current post by the actress elicited comments from other celebrities like Mercy Aigbe, Annie Idibia who gushed about the new set of pictures shared on her Instagram page. The actress of vast credit who was recently reappointed as Special Assistant on Tourism Development by the Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, decided to flaunt her curves in the stunning pictures. Reacting to the adorable pictures the 38 year old shared, actress, Mercy Aigbe wrote “Absolutely stunning”. Annie Idibia wrote “But sis…omg tooooooooooooo beautiful”, Dakore wrote “Brown Sugar”. Oge Okoye wrote, “Stunning”. The talented Efik lady was a year older in April. Ini recently released her latest movie titled ‘Trouble in High Heel’ which featured other actors like Federick Leonard, Lilian Esoro, Tana Egbo-Adelana and Emem D. Ufot. ‘Trouble in High Heel’ is currently being aired on Ibakatv. A lead actress in so many hit movies, Ini has featured in countless movie productions including Face of Beauty, and Eyes of the God. Among her other movies are Last Game, Desperate Billionaire, Casandra, World War, Knocking on Heavens Door, Millionaires Daughter and I Will Take My Chances, Uyai, World Apart, Weekend Getaway, and Heaven on My Mind. Away from her acting turf, the brand influencer is on the move to reach a hundred thousand young women with digital skills across Africa in a programme initiated by the actress. The empowerment programme was designed to assist leading female entrepreneurs in advancing economic empowerment in today’s evolving digital space. The maiden edition of the programme where she addressed the beneficiaries of her largess in Akwa Ibom kicked-off in June 2020.