By David-Chyddy The Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano, has placed a one-year suspension on 12 traditional rulers in the state who went on a trip to Abuja with oil magnate, Prince Arthur Eze, to see President Muhammad Buhari. The monarchs were alleged to have traveled with Eze to report the governor to the president over his non-conduct of local government elections in the state among other complaints. Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftaincy and Community Affairs, Mr. Greg Obi, listed the affected traditional rulers as follows: Igwe Alex Edozieuno of Mkpunando; Igwe Mark Anthony Okonkwo of Alor; Igwe Chukuwma Bob Vincent Orji of Ezinifite, and Igwe G.B.C Mbakwe of Abacha. Others are Igwe Chijioke Nwankwo of Nawfia; Igwe Nkeli Nelly of Igbariam; Igwe Anthony Onyekwere of Owelle; Igwe A. N Onwuneme of Ikenga; Igwe Simon Ikechukwu Chidubem of Umumbo; Igwe S. O Uche of Ezira; Igwe Dr. Emeka Ilouno of Ifitedunu, and Igwe Peter Ikegbunem Udoji of Eziagulu Otu. The suspension took effect from August 11, 2020, the circular stated. According to him, “The suspended Igwes are not to parade themselves as traditional rulers, and should desist from discharging their functions as traditional rulers in their communities or anywhere within the state and beyond with immediate effect. “Also revoked are their membership of the Anambra State Traditional Rulers Council and any appointment they may be holding in government committees until the suspension is lifted. “The suspension may be lifted at the end of one year, renewed or upgraded in the intervening period depending on the government’s review of the conduct of the errant royal fathers.” THISDAY gathered that the suspension of the monarchs followed the recommendation of their colleagues in the Anambra State Traditional Rulers Council after their meeting at Prof Dora Akunyili Women Development Centre in Awka last Tuesday, who were offended by the public conduct of the 12 Igwes, a situation that has been generating negative reviews in the media in the past one week. The state traditional council led by the Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Nnaemeka Achebe, had strongly condemned the ill-fated trip of the ‘rebellious traditional rulers’. The circular stated: “The traditional rulers leaving their respective domains without notifying either the state or their respective local government authorities, had violated the code of conduct prescribed for their office.”