The Global Initiative for Entrepreneurship and Capacity Development and ICLED Business School, Lekki, Lagos, (IBS) in collaboration with Smart Kids Club USA, will hold an education conference designed to address the global digital divide in primary education in Nigeria. The conference themed, ‘Nigeria reads: A Panacea for Reducing the Digital Divide and Marginalization of the Primary School Students as a Result of the COVID-19 Pandemic,’ will be held virtually on August, 20. It will be moderated by Johanna Le Blanc, a U.S based National Security and Foreign Affairs Legal Analyst.
Other speakers expected are from the American Embassy and different government functionaries including Mrs. Lai Koiki, Founder of Greensprings Schools and Dr. Tajuna Kumari from India. The Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo, Okukenu IV, will chair the occasion.
Other dignitaries which will be from the American Embassy, Consulate General include the Minister of Education, Commissioner for Education, Lagos State and corporate organizations, while the keynote will be delivered by Mr. Wale Adeosun, Founder/CEO Kuramo Capital, Manhattan, New York on the topic, ‘The Global Importance of Investing in Education.’ The convener and founder of ICLED, Professor Olajumoke Familoni, said, “The Chief Technology Officer of Smart Kids Club, Delaware USA, Mr. Harjeet Singh will present the application which teaches literacy and numeracy skills with no use for data once downloaded.” This APP from our USA partner , she noted, will bridge the divide by teaching reading skills for literacy and Mathematic skills for numeracy.” She said the purchase of the APP by the state and federal governments, private sector, goundations and NGOs will go a long way to reach the remote areas of the country. “There are also children in the cities and in the Northern areas that have no access to education without data and power supply. The COVID-19 has skyrocket the number of students with no access to education thereby increasing the issues of rape of the girl child and increase in vices such as abuse, kidnapping and poverty.”