Philips Consulting Limited has introduced micro-services platform tagged pcl. Micro Courses. Launched in Lagos recently, the solution is a tool that seeks to drive the reskilling of ecosystems and support diverse communities, with interactive platforms that bridge the transition gap into the future. Speaking on the new online courses, Philips Consulting’s Senior Consultant Learning, Innovation, Fokanferanmi Okojie, was quoted in a statement to have said, “Several mega-trends are bringing a radical shift to the way we work, live, and learn. We are looking, listening, learning, and creating banisters for all genres of the corporate world to transition smoothly on the unprecedented path to the future of work.” Despite emergence from the pandemic lockdown, he said, “Our unemployment rates are skyrocketing daily, the youths are shaken and those currently employed are unprepared for the future that is speedily presenting itself. “The systems designed to support learning at all levels are just as inadequately prepped for the change. The quality of our long-term professional talent pool is dwindling and the influx of youth into the workforce only fails deeper when they are on-boarded to a corporate system with no plan for the future of work,” he added. Corroborating Okojie’s earlier exertion, Nwaji Jibunoh, Head of Training at Philips Consulting said, “Nigeria is at the inflection point where the name of the new game is how best prepared you are for the future. Upskilling yourself will no longer be about fulfilling requirements but about survival”. As technology continues to evolve and adoption accelerated, Jibunoh stated that moving closer and closer towards fully automated systems, the future of work and the emerging technology skillsets required, are no longer
conversations for tomorrow, but rather, for today. COVID-19 has forced us to reimagine the way that we work digitally, and it has brought the reality into our lives in many unimaginable ways. The growth of the digital workplace will continue unabated. “Covid-19 has accelerated the rate of technology adoption. Recent pandemic GDP indicators in Nigeria suggest that we will continue to see ICT growth. However, whilst we expect the impact to remain fairly low in the manufacturing sector, we can expect major disruption in financial services and logistics. Policy change and training are powerful tools that the public and private sector can use to prepare human capital for the impending disruption said, Rob Taiwo, Managing Director Phillips Consulting.