By Uchechukwu Nnaike To celebrate the 80th birthday of its Chairman, Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi, the MTN Foundation has established an e-library at Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, the foundation also launched a scholarship scheme for eight beneficiaries.
OAU has become the latest recipient of the e-library intervention by the MTN Foundation joining University of Lagos, Ahmadu Bello University, University of Nigeria and University of Benin.
The e-library was formerly handed over to the university during a virtual ceremony recently.
In his remarks, the celebrant said the infrastructure would grant students easy access to additional resources to broaden their learning.
“Buying books for me has been a lifelong investment and when it was time to give them away, my alma-mater, the Obafemi Awolowo University came to mind. On speaking with the school librarian, it became necessary to equip the library with some digital resources and this was where the MTN Foundation came in.
“Brightening lives and empowering youths has always been a priority for us at the MTN Foundation. Providing adequate infrastructure for students to access quality education physically or virtually is of utmost importance. This is why we have worked together on this project to empower the students for a formidable future in the new digital era. The world has gone digital and we will not wait behind.”
Also speaking, the acting Executive Secretary, MTN Foundation, Odunayo Sanya stated: “The upgrade of the Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi Library to an e-library is a critical project for the MTN Foundation. Certainly, we place a premium on empowerment and full access to information as evidenced by the libraries we established in four universities across the country, including the University of Lagos, the Ahmadu Bello University, the University of Benin and the University of Nigeria.
“This particular library is special because it is tied to the legacy of a man we at the MTN Foundation hold in very high esteem. A man dedicated to the wealth and development of generations. It has been upgraded to deliver even more value for the students of this great institution. We trust that the symbolism of the inspirational leader who this library is named after is not lost on those who use it,” she said.
Sanya disclosed that till date, 273 students of the OAU have benefitted from the Science and Technology Scheme of the MTN Foundation, adding that in honour of the Chairman, the foundation is instituting the Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi Prize for Pharmacy and Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi Prize for Law.
“The three-year scholarship for pharmacy and law students will benefit eight outstanding scholars from universities across the country.”
Commending the foundation for the donation, the Vice-Chancellor of OAU, Professor Eyitope Ogunbodede said: “We are excited that the Chairman, through the MTN Foundation, decided to bestow this honour on the Obafemi Awolowo University. What we have in the Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi e-Library has assisted us in obtaining the university’s accreditation, which earned us 100 per cent. We appreciate the MTN Foundation for this contribution and are committed to setting and implementing sustainable measures to ensure that these resources are put to the best use. This gesture will accelerate students’ learning and bridge the gap in areas where textbooks are not readily available.”
The MTN Foundation continues to support education as part of its four causes- youth empowerment, arts and culture, maternal and child health and national priority.