Oluchi Chibuzor The Oladipupo Clement Empowerment Foundation has donated free General Certification Examination (GCE) forms to about 50 teenagers to ease the economic pressure on their parents during the COVID-19 pandemic. The donation was part of the non-governmental organisation’s effort in reducing the number of out-of-school children in the country and to remove the psychological trauma of children with poor parents. Speaking during the donation exercise recently, the founder, Clement said a child’s inability to get quality education gets worse during harsh economic times as job losses and fear for the future put stress on families. He said this stress needs to be eased by stakeholders, individuals who have made it in the society over the years.
“The foundation believes that it is the responsibility of all well to do Nigerians to participate in educating at least one child in their community because many are left with emotional and psychological trauma to deal with as they cannot afford the form.” Worried by the rising number of out of school children in Nigeria, Clement, a wealth creation and financial coach explained that “the foundation aims to reduce the awkward figures of out-of-school children in Nigeria to the lowest minimum. “Oladipupo Clement Empowerment Foundation aims to reduce the number of vulnerable children with no access to quality education.” He said the 50 teenagers were offered scholarships under the Uncle Ope Global Concepts www.oladipupoclement.com
“Living in a community with a large number of uneducated children is a serious societal issue and one that we all need to address. We can do that by supporting agencies that work on behalf of children. Every child’s education is important.” The foundation which was established out of personal struggles and challenges is out to impact the future of underprivileged children in Nigerian society. Clement therefore called for effective synergy from various sectors, saying, “together we can alleviate the sufferings of underprivileged children through partnership with the foundation to help give one child a new beginning. Educating a child is everyone’s job.” The Oladipupo Clement Empowerment Foundation is a not-for-profit and non-political organisation focused on creating a platform for the all-round educational needs of outstanding, but indigent youths in Nigeria through scholarships, grants, and educational support. It is not just focused on academics, but also prioritises vocational, technical, professional and executive education.