By Funmi Ogundare A total of 139 students have recieved the prestigious Outstanding Cambridge Learner awards in various subjects in Cambridge IGCSE, Cambridge O Level and Cambridge International AS and A Levels.
The award winners include 16 students who excelled in subjects like Geography, Mathematics and Business to receive the ‘Top in the World’ honour. Cambridge International also granted 101 ‘Top in Nigeria’ awards to learners who achieved the highest standard mark in their country for a single subject, 64 ‘High Achievement’ awards and 10 ‘Best Across’ awards to students who attained the highest cumulative total standard marks over a set number of subjects.
All the top-performing students will receive certificates from Cambridge International in recognition of their achievements.
Cambridge International’s Regional Director for Sub-Saharan Africa,
Juan Visser, commended its top achievers in Nigeria, saying, “we are delighted that learners in Nigeria produce such fantastic results year-in-and-year-out; this points to the quality of the schools in Nigeria registered to offer Cambridge programmes.’’
Cambridge International operates in partnership with the British Council in Nigeria.
The Country Director, British Council Nigeria, Lucy Pearson said the council creates international opportunities through its work in arts, English Language, education, administering exams and building stronger societies.
“The exams we administer help people all over the world gain educational and professional development, so they are better positioned for success in life. Education is a key enabler for these opportunities, and we believe in ensuring young learners have access to world-class education and assessments which we have achieved through our partners; Cambridge Assessment International Education and the schools in our Partner Schools Global Network (PSGN).”
The Director Examinations, British Council Nigeria, Marniee Nottingham, said: “Through the Partner Schools Global Network (PSGN), the British Council provides professional skills development and networking opportunities to enhance school leadership and teaching talent across our portfolio of about 395 schools across Nigeria.
“We not only celebrate student achievement, we also congratulate the school leaders, teachers and parents in promoting excellence in the future of our young learners. It is great to see the achievements of these students as they embark on their futures in country and worldwide.”
Some of the awardees expressed delight about their achievements, saying that their hard work has paid off.
Master Jefferson Iyanuloluwa Joshua from the Lifeforte International High School, who received one Top in World, three Top in Nigeria and a Best Across 8 in Cambridge O Levels for the June 2019 exam series said, ‘I am happy that my hard work and prayers have come to fruition. Initially I found the Cambridge programme a bit challenging because I had to take subjects like Economics and Business Studies which are new to me, but the practical, application-based, learner focused style of the programme meant that I was soon comfortable with those subjects and my other subjects and able to excel in them.”
He plans to go to Imperial College for a degree in Mechanical engineering.
Shreya Jindal from the Regent Secondary School, Abuja, who received a Top in World, four Top in Nigeria and a Best Across 8 in Cambridge IGCSE in the June 2019 exam series, said: “The Cambridge programme builds a strong foundation for higher education. Even though it requires you to study a specified syllabus, most of what you’ are tested on is applied knowledge. This makes sure you really understand what you’re learning.”
He adviced other students to find out how they need to learn, saying,”don’t be afraid of trying different methods until you find what works best for you. The Regent employs various 21st-century learning ideas that have something to offer to everyone. It is also really important to pay attention in class; you would be surprised how much of the information actually sticks, so you don’t have to go home and read everything again. Take advantage of all the resources provided by the school, and work with your teachers to get the best out of the system which offers holistic education.’
Jindal is currently doing her Cambridge International A Levels.