Tobi Soniyi Kabir Daura, son of Mamman Daura, President Muhammadu Buhari’s older nephew, at the weekend, released yet a new video showing that his father was not sick, but hale and hearty. The video has further debunked reports that Daura was suddenly flown out of the country for medical attention. Kabir accompanied the video with a message, which reads: “Flown to the UK for which treatment? Here is the Mamman Daura you talk about, yesterday, fit and spritely. Your evil wishes for Baba MD will come to naught. They will never see the light of day. Sahara Reporters= Fake news merchants.” Also, Bashir Ahmad, Personal Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on New Media, posted the video on his verified Twitter handle @BashirAhmaad. The video shows Daura walking about in a living room, having a phone conversation in Hausa at an undisclosed address in London. He showed no sign of infirmity and was having a normal conversation in his native language. Debunking the rumour of Daura’s critical health status, Ahmad tweeted: “No iota of truth in the earlier story that Mallam Mamman Daura was flown to London for an emergency medical attention. He is hale and hearty. Nigerians should disregard that story.” Daura’s eldest son, Mohammed, had earlier said his father was well and not sick as reported in some news media.
The reports, which circulated earlier in the week, claimed that Daura had been flown abroad for urgent medical treatment.
But Mohammed dismissed the story and reminded those behind it of their mortality. In a statement sent to THISDAY, Mohammed said: “Today is the 21st of August, 2020 and for the past couple of days, we have been forced to deny, numerous times, a completely fabricated story about our father’s wellbeing. “Alhamdulillah Baba is perfectly fine. He neither has a history of renal problems nor does he have any breathing difficulties like was suggested in the concocted news story.” He reminded those who might derive awkward pleasure from the negative story of their impermanence, saying, “Those that happily shared and even rejoiced over this fake news story should know one thing about life is that no one makes it out alive. We should collectively be humbled by our own mortality. “We would like to extend our gratitude to the many well-wishers, who have called or sent messages to pray for our father. We thank you for the prayers and well wishes.” Mohammed did not comment on whether his father was indeed flown out, where he was taken to, and for what reason, but some reports alleged in the week that he was flown to the United Kingdom on Wednesday, and that it was purportedly confirmed by Daura’s aide and close friend, Aminu Balele Kurfi, who said the president’s nephew travelled to London for routine medical check-up, adding that the news of serious illness was inaccurate. Reports claimed Kurfi acknowledged that the 80-year old Daura was at the funeral prayer for the late journalist, Wada Maida on Tuesday and did not show any sign of illness, noting that he saw him off to the airport on Wednesday and received notice of his arrival in the UK. According to one of the reports, Kurfi said, “At 80 years, it is natural that he will from time to time undertake medical checks. “If he were sick and the sickness is COVID-19, do you think UK authorities will allow him to travel there at this time?”