Kingsley Nwezeh in Àbuja Military air strikes and artillery bombardment have killed scores of bandits and terrorists in Niger and Borno states, while three soldiers were killed and two others wounded in another confrontation with armed bandits in Niger State. A military update on the war against insurgency said the Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole launched air strikes under a new subsidiary operation code-named “Operation Hail Storm”, killing scores of insurgents and destroying their hideouts in Lake Chad and Sambisa Forest areas of Borno State. The update issued yesterday by the Directorate of Defence Media Operations (DDMO) said the attack at Tumbuma Baba, one of the Island settlements on the fringes of the Lake Chad, was carried out after human intelligence reports indicated that several ISWAP fighters and some of their leaders were harboured in some structures concealed under the thick vegetation of the area. “The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) fighter jets dispatched by the ATF to attack the location scored devastating hits on the settlement, killing several of the terrorists and destroying their structures. “Several terrorists were similarly neutralised and some of their dwellings destroyed at Boboshe, a village along the river line on the eastern part of the Sambisa Forest, as the NAF jets took turns in engaging the location”, it said. In another encounter with armed bandits, the Coordinator of DDMO, Major General John Enenche, said following credible intelligence on the activities of armed bandits attack in Tashan Kare, in Niger State, troops swiftly mobilised to the scene and made contact with the bandits. He said troops engaged the armed bandits with superior fire power killing scores of bandits while others fled in disarray into the bushes. “Sadly own troops suffered three casualties while two others were wounded in action. Exploitation is ongoing. The military high command congratulates the gallant troops for their professionalism and encourages them to intensify the onslaught against the enemies of our country”, he explained.