Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has emphasised the vital role of the Federal Character Commission (FCC) in implementation and enforcement of the principles of fairness and equity in the distribution of all public posts and socio-economic infrastructure, among the various federating units of the country. Ugwuanyi stressed this yesterday, at the Government House, Enugu, when he hosted the Commissioner representing Enugu State, in the Federal Character Commission, Mrs. Ginika Florence Tor, who was recently inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari, alongside other members of the Commission. The governor noted that the Commission was saddled with the responsibility of working out an equitable formula, subject to the approval of the President, for the distribution of all cadres of posts in the public service of the federation and of the states, the Armed Forces of the Federation, the Nigeria Police Force and other government security agencies, government owned companies and parastatals of the states, etc. He pointed out that the Commission’s responsibilities, which were apt, underscored the strategic role of the state’s representative, Mrs. Tor, “in ensuring that Enugu State was availed its fair share of posts in civil and public services of the federation.” While congratulating Mrs. Tor on her new appointment, Governor Ugwuanyi prayed for God’s guidance and protection, assuring her of his administration’s willingness and readiness to avail her all necessary support and collaboration to maximise the state’s opportunities in the civil and public services of the federation. “I pray that the good Lord grants you the health, presence of mind, focus and courage to enthrone a new paradigm that will expand the frontiers of Enugu State opportunities in the Federal Civil and Public Services”, the governor added. In her remark, Mrs. Tor, who was accompanied to the reception by her colleagues in the Federal Character Commission, from Abia, Anambra, Lagos, Cross River, Delta and Nasarawa States, expressed gratitude to Governor Ugwuanyi for deeming it necessary to honour her in spite of the fact that they are in different political parties. The Federal Commissioner, who eulogised Ugwuanyi for his outstanding leadership qualities – his non-partisanship, humility, wonderful personality and sustained commitment to entrenchment of peace and good governance in Enugu State – assured the governor that “we are going to work to the best of our ability to get whatever that is due to Enugu State at the federal level”. Mrs. Tor thanked President Buhari for reviving the Commission based on “the need to maintain balance, fairness, equity and justice in the country”. The Enugu representative also acknowledged the commitment of the Chairman of the Commission, Hajiya Muheeba F. Dankaka “in putting a stop to cries of marginalisation and under-representation”. Mrs. Tor disclosed that “Dankaka graciously allowed us to use two weeks to go down to our various states to feel at first-hand how fair and equitable we have been in the conduct of public affairs at the federal, states and local government levels, at the end of which we would report back to Abuja”. In their separate felicitations, the Federal Commissioners in the FCC present at the event, described Mrs. Tor as a bridge-builder, hardworking and wonderful woman, commending Gov. Ugwuanyi for honoring her, despite their differences in political affiliation.