By James Sowole The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Ondo State, Mr. Eyitayo Jegede SAN, has described as outrageous and suspicious, the N5.4 billion spent by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to construct a single lane bridge on Benin-Ijebuode Road at Ore. Jegede, who made the remarks while addressing leaders of Ondo State Artisans Group (OSAG) in Akure, said the government’s disclosure on the cost of the bridge became worrisome upon reflection that it was a tiny bridge and not commensurate with quoted expenditure. Describing the amount as too high, Jegede said, “Spending N100 million on a bridge is a lot, and spending N200 million, N300 million and on and on, is a lot more. “It becomes a big deal if a bridge cost you N1 billion; but how do you justify the spending of N5.4 billion on a single bridge when there are urgent public needs in terms of education, health services and other social infrastructure? “It is even worrisome realising that the bridge is not worth the cost, as it is a tiny one; so one wonders how N5.4 billion was spent on it,” he lamented. Jegede assured the people of the state of prudent management of the state’s resources, if voted into office. He disputed the claim by the Akeredolu administration that the state was in financial crisis, noting that if it were so, the government would not spend N5.4 billion to build one bridge. The governorship candidate also assured artisans in the state that he would patronise local contractors if elected governor, expressing the hope that patronising local contractors, would boost individual economy through multiplier effects. “Our local contractors and artisans are going to benefit from government contracts if you elect me as governor, we won’t bring contractors from Ibadan,” he assured. He equally told parents bearing the brunt of outrageous tuition introduced by the Akeredolu administration that he would bring down the fees, once elected. “This will happen along with free medical services for pregnant women, nursing mothers, the elderly and the physically challenged citizens,” he pledged. Jegede, warned that those who planned to rig the October 10 election through mercinaries from Lagos, Kogi and Osun states to have a re-think, as the people of the state were fully prepared to defend their voting right. “Our people should not panic at all, they should come out to vote. Those coming from Kogi, Osun and Lagos should stop at the border, as we are fully prepared for them,” he cautioned.