By Oluchi Chibuzor A digital e-learning platform named Digital CEO Tribe has been launched for students, entrepreneurs and professionals in various sectors. The launch was in line with federal government’s drive to attain a digital economy. The founder, Samson Olatunde, while unveiling the initiative in Lagos recently, said the fallout of COVID-19 on businesses clearly showed the need to become inclined technologically. He said the country must leverage emerging digital to produce employers of labour for the 21st century. Olatunde, stressed the need to make at least 90 per cent of Nigerians literate towards achieving 2020-2025 broadband plan of the federal government through the ministry of communication. According to him, “it is no longer news that an increasing number of people are seeking remote training possibilities now. Digital CEO Tribe discerned the need to broaden its content to support various sharing capacities. “Thus, they developed and released three new features: Digital CEO Africa Summit, The Digital Conversation, and The Digital Profit Master class. “Digital learning in recent times is becoming the most suitable way of learning as professionals from different industries across the world can have access to learning materials inform of Videos, web-links, audiotapes, course information, are available for access.” He added: “The information on the platform shows our commitment towards providing digital learning in line with the digital policy of the federal government. The team is doing everything to meet the needs of viewers and subscribers in the face of the new normal. “It is evident that the nation has the opportunity to leverage the teaming population by teaching them to acquire skills that would make them employers of labours. This we have done through our website.” Commenting on the initiative, Founder SA Productions, Shola Animashaun, described the initiative as a timely intervention that would help shape the narratives of how disruptive technologies are used in telling virtual stories.