Omon-Julius Onabu in Asaba After four months after closure, the Asaba International Airport in Delta State finally resumed commercial flight operations yesterday with the arrival of an Aero Contractors flight from Abuja. The flight, a Q300 Dash 8 with registration number 5N–BJO, which had on board the state Commissioner for Information, Mr. Charles Aniagwu, touched down at the Asaba airport at exactly 11.52a.m. Aniagwu, described the commencement of flight operations by Aero Contractors as one of the rewards of the development efforts of the state Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa. He said the arrival of the airline was a testimony that the investment made by the state government to upgrade facilities in the airport was well made, adding that there are prospects for other airlines to join and increase the flight options to and from Asaba. “The arrival of Aero Contractors is a good omen for flight users in Asaba, because it will give air travellers more options. Good enough, we have more airlines that will be coming into this airport. Ibom Air is resuming flight in this airport soon, as we have always had AZMAN and Air Peace and now Aero. We are also looking forward to having Arik back to this airport. “That means flyers and travellers who make use of this airport will have more opportunities, and you know the effect that that will have on the ticket fares, and so we are quite excited. “I must also appreciate the good work by the Special Projects Director, Mr. Austin Ayemidejor, who has worked tirelessly to ensure that the airport reopens,” the commissioner said. In his remark, Ayemidejor said the state government had invested a lot to ensure compliance with prescribed regulatory protocols for the aviation industry in Nigeria, commending the governor for his commitment to the development of the airport. He said: “The airport got a very satisfactory approval from the NCAA, and we must ensure that the airport continues to operate in line with laid down protocols and international best practices.”