By Ebere Nwoji The Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) said it will take insurance awareness to the office of President Muhammadu Buhari. The Executive Secretary of the Council, Mr. Fatai Adegbenro, made the disclosure while speaking to members of the National Association of Insurance and Pension Correspondents (NAIPCO) in Lagos recently. He said the presidential insurance awareness team would be led by the NCRIB President, Dr. (Mrs) Bola Onigbogi. He said the proposed visit to President Buhari was part of the Council’s sensitisation Programme to deepen insurance penetration in the country. It is aimed at sensitising the government on the need to engage the services of the registered insurance brokers, to protect the assets and liabilities of the government. According to Adegbenro, “We will continue to engage the government agencies from time to time. But for the COVID-19, our President would have paid a visit to the Presidency with the view to sensitising the government on the need to engage the services of the registered insurance brokers, to protect the assets and liabilities of the government. “It’s not only the assets you protect, you protect liabilities as well because there are a lot of loans being taken to execute government projects. When these projects fail, whether you like it or not you must pay back the loan, so you have to protect all these things. “We are engaging the people to embrace the benefits of insurance. Insurance is key. In other climes, nobody waits for the government. It’s very easy because people rely on ignorance to say government has not done this or that. Government cannot do everything even in the United States of America (USA). “If they suffer loss, they don’t go to government, the people call on their insurance companies for compensation. We are doing everything to ensure we minimise reliances on government here,” he said. Speaking on technology, he said the Council was doing everything within its powers to ensure that members fully upgrade their operations to suit the global trends in business operations
“On the area of technology, if you say some members are not technologically savvy, yes, but in the real sense of it, since the lockdown, we have been meeting with our members; some of you have had the opportunity to come here and meet us. “Our membership is spread all over the country and we have been organising trainings for our members. Nobody can claim to know everything, even the public you are reaching out to, your client might not be IT savvy hence you see them going there. “When after sending mails to clients and there is no response you have to move out to reach out to them and our members have been dealing with them online.”
He said going forward, all the renewals of NCRIB members would be done online.