Mary Nnah Fast-rising music artiste, Nnanna Chukwukadibia Amuchie, popularly known as Rasz, purportedly one of Nigeria’s best up-and-coming artiste yet to be explored, is set to rule the music industry in Africa and beyond. The Hip-hop recording artist, public speaker and activist exploits got some level of attention in South East Asia, Australia and Europe where he had stayed for a while. His career and passion got stronger after his mother passed away in 2015 even though it took him three years to recover from the shock. Rasz, whose music is said to be inspired by pain and street life, has had songs with some prominent Nigerian artists over the years. Born into a comfortable and elite family, based partly in California and partly in Nigeria, he took to the streets at the age of 15. He was called the black sheep of the family. Rasz is a living example of a young man who cleaned up his life by God’s special intervention and has been on a journey to help and change the lives of many young people. “The good I do today is to atone for the wrongs I did in the past”, this very outspoken and outstanding teacher and leader said during a recent interview with THISDAY. He is the founder of a movement called African Tribes with the sole aim to unite all Africans and put an end to segregation and tribalism. He is also drawn to empowering youths and helping them build a career and a future for themselves. Rasz, who is working on an album to be released later in the year, revealed that the album will be featuring some international artists who are yet to be disclosed. Terry Apala, Ice Prince, Vector, Duncan Mighty are also some of the older artists he has worked with. Rasz who was spotted in 2018 at the VIP back stage section with “Sean Kingston” during his South East Asia tour, in the same year started penetrating the African market and exploring the Afro beat rhythms. Then in 2019 he dropped a single with Ice Prince Zamani alongside Terry Apala. And in 2020 he dropped songs featuring Duncan Mighty, Reminisce and Vector the Viper. Born at the UNTH Enugu, Enugu State, to Prof. F.A. Amuchie and Mrs. L.I. Amuchie, Rasz who has attained an enviable level of education despite the life challenges faced, attended University Primary School, Nsukka; University Secondary School, Nsukka and later proceeded to Imo State University, Owerri, where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree in Fine and Applied Arts. He later went further to obtain a Masters in Art History at University of Nigeria, Nsukka. “I’m spiritual, not religious but at the same time I’m an Omnist.. I’m hungry for ancient knowledge so I’m still searching for the truth”, he noted, the fast rising artist who won the award for best African Act, Bali Island. He is a prolific basketball player and to crown it all He’s a Karate Black belter, Armed and unarmed combat instructor.