The candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Edo State governorship election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has promised to partner Azura Plant and others in energy sector in the state to improve power supply in the state, as part of his strategic plans to embark on jobs/wealth creation for the citizens of the state. He said the state needs regular power supply in order to achieve his agenda for industrialisation of the state. According to him in a statement issued by his campaign organisation, “A strong and prosperous Edo State will depend on a vibrant and growing manufacturing sector that can create competitive advantages in the midst of rapid technological change and globalisation of markets, production and innovation. Manufacturing is an antidote for unemployment, a creator of wealth and a harbinger of sustainable development. “The primary objective of the industrialisation programme of my government will be to accelerate the pace of industrial development in the state by leveraging private financing through Public-Private-Partnership (PPP). In doing this, we need regular power supply in the state.’’ Azura Edo Plant, which is located in Benin-city, is the country’s largest Independent Power Plant (IPP) and the first fully financed private power plant in Nigeria. The plant currently produces 450 megawatts of electricity, but in the long run, the plant is expected to produce 1,500 megawatts. The governorship hopeful explained that his desire to partner Azura and other interested investors in energy in the state is predicated on the fact that energy plays a huge role in the economic development, poverty reduction and security of any state or country. Ize-Iyamu added: “Uninterrupted power supply is vital for economic growth and any nation that is desired to create jobs and wealth, which will crucially depend on the long-term availability of power from sources that are reasonably priced and available.” The APC governorship candidate said the state government under his leadership would embark on wealth creation for the citizens of the state through the uncommon embrace of the public private partnership paradigm to bring about economic prosperity in various sectors of the state’s economy.