Oriental Energy Resources Limited, an indigenous oil producer in Nigeria, has donated food items to its host communities in Mbo Local Government Area, Akwa Ibom State, to cushion the effects of COVID-19 pandemic. According to the company’s Head of Community and Government Relations, Dr. Uwem Ite, the food distribution was part of company’s initiatives to alleviate the hardship caused by the pandemic in the communities. He made this disclosure at the presentation of the palliatives to the state government. A statement quoted Ite to have said: “Distribution of the palliatives consisting of rice, garri and vegetable oil is one of the many areas in which Oriental Energy plans to support the social development efforts of the state government this year.” Receiving the food items on behalf of Akwa Ibom State Government, Secretary to the State Government and the Chairman of the State COVID-19 Management Committee, Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem, expressed gratitude to Oriental Energy for the gesture, saying: “On behalf of the State Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, we appreciate the gesture of Oriental Energy Resources Limited. The Governor oversees everything that goes on in the state as far as the COVID-19 pandemic is concerned, little wonder that the Director General of Nigerian Centre for Disease Control, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, commended the Governor for making the state a reference point in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic”. Ekuwem, emphasised that Governor Emmanuel was resolute in his commitment to salvage the state from the viral disease and as such put facilities in place to ensure that the life of no Akwa Ibom person or resident was lost on account of the pandemic. He said the state-of-the-art Isolation Centres, the PCR Laboratory, Emergency Operations Center, as some of the commendable programmes of the Administration to contain the spread of the virus in the State. Also, on hand to receive the Oriental Energy delegation was the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Ini Ememobong and Commissioner of Health, Prof.Augustine Umoh. While expressing his appreciation, the Chairman of Mbo Local Government Area, Mr. Asuquo Eyo said, “Oriental Energy is the only company operating with a human face in Mbo LGA.” At the community level, Oriental Energy team was received by the people of Effiat during the handing over of the food items for distribution to the respective families and households in Effiat communities. Chief Mathais Okon Nta, Chairman, Effiat Clan Council of Chiefs, led other members of Effiat Clan Council to appreciate and receive the food items from Oriental Energy delegation. Earlier, Oriental Energy team paid a courtesy visit to the Paramount Ruler, Mbo Local Government Area, His Royal Majesty, Ogwong Okon A. Abang. The Royal Father was informed that the distribution of the food items comes on the heels of the company’s 2020/2021 University Scholarship Scheme targeted at supporting eligible students from Akwa Ibom State, particularly indigenes of Effiat and Mbo communities. In Akwa Ibom, Oriental Energy Resources concentrates its social investments on education, community health and enterprise development. In 2019, more than 4,000 people including children benefited from its annual medical outreach in Mbo Local Government Area. Similarly, several students from the same communities have benefitted from yearly scholarships since the award scheme commenced in 2009. The oil firm has recently completed a multi-purpose printing and reprographics facility located at Enwang. Construction work at a science laboratory complex at Community Grammar School, Ebughu in Mbo LGA, is in advanced stages of completion. The solar-powered building and associated infrastructure will be provided with WAEC-standard equipment and accessories for the study of Biology, Chemistry and Physics.