Chiamaka Ozulumba writes that Amber Drinks Ltd is bringing a ray of hope to Nigerians in the labour market as she launches an empowerment program for local entrepreneurs Amber Drinks Limited has unveiled a new empowerment program with an aim to empower local entrepreneurs. The new program was introduced as a solution to the challenges of unemployment and is targeted at poverty alleviation. Deemed ‘Amber Drinks Empowerment Program’, the initiative aimed at retailers, students, startups and unemployed Nigerians. It encourages local entrepreneurs to go into the energy drink distribution market, thus helping them transform their economies to become more independent, equitable, and sustainable. Speaking on the purpose of the Amber Drinks Empowerment Program, the General Manager, Amber Drinks Ltd, Lola Adedeji, stated, “With Nigeria’s population increasing exponentially coupled with the global pandemic, economic opportunities are now limited and overstretched. “The need to encourage and empower startups, students, retailers and the unemployed cannot be overemphasised. “Amber Drinks, through this program aims to provide Nigerians the opportunity to own and grow their businesses through soft loans and business support initiatives. “By providing young people and business enthusiasts with entrepreneurial opportunities to create wealth and support their livelihood, this program will help generate jobs and income, and encourage retailers to go into the energy drink distribution market.” The Amber Drinks Empowerment Program is divided into two sectors, the ‘Start-up loan’ and the ‘Business Support’. Beneficiaries of the Start Up Loan will receive N100,000 and a below-market interest rate of five per cent flat with a with months repayment plan and interest-free within the first 30 days. This loan will be given in the form of products to sustain beneficiaries who are looking to start trading in Amber Energy drink or already own retail store outlets. In addition, each beneficiary starts with a minimum of 20 cases and grows to a minimum of 25 cases every week. Under this scheme, Amber Drinks Limited would empower at least 400 applicants quarterly. The Business Support involves rent-to-own recharge spots which will cater to individuals that are small-time beverage retailers and are ideally already in the business but need support to expand and grow. The brand will empower 200 applicants quarterly, giving them branded recharge spots on payment by installments. To join the Amber Drinks Empowerment Program, interested persons must apply online, log onto www.amberenergydrink.com/empowerment and follow through the prompts or simply text Amber<> your full name<> location<> to 34778 and they will receive an auto-response for them to follow-through. Successful applicants would be invited for a short training and onboarding session. Amber Drinks would certify beneficiaries and be hands-on to support beneficiaries with free business consulting and training which launches on September 1, 2020 as well as POS merchandise. Ámber is scientifically formulated to provide an incredible energy boost for those who lead active and exhausting lifestyles ranging from sports to entertainment. Amber energy drink is enhanced with potent herbal blends of Guarana, Amino acids and Vitamins.