The CEO of South African based Big Announcement Entertainment Records, Mr. Ogedengbe Bright Uduimho, popularly known as Drbtgar, has called on the Federal Government of Nigerian to create an enabling business environment by ensuring the provision of constant electricity and quality road networks in the country. The Nigerian-born businessman who is based in South Africa, said the call became necessary in order to guarantee friendlier business environment in Nigeria. According to him, “Constant electricity is the way forward and I believe if the government can do just that for us, business would run smoothly for everyone in the country both home and abroad. Good road networks are also key for businesses to thrive and I implore the government to construct new roads and maintain existing roads.”
Drbtgar said the Nigerian government must wake up to its responsibilities because “business environment is not favorable for many youths as a result poor infrastructure.” He also advised Nigerian youths to make effective use of the social media and to see it as a veritable platform for vital information dissemination, rather than using it to create fear among Nigerians and the rest of the world.
“Nigerian youths must not abuse social media and indulge in spreading misinformation that causes fear and panic. Youths should not use social media to create panic about the deadly Corona Virus (Covid-19) that is currently ravaging the world. This is one of the things we should not spread. I believe with time all this will pass away we should not spread misinformation around our self. I believe the Ministry of Health will continue to provide updates and will initiate all measures required to prevent the spread of coronavirus in Nigeria,” Drbtgar said. Drbtgar, a Nigerian, from Jattu Uzairue Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State, was born in Lagos Nigeria, but resides in Cape Town, South Africa. He studied Digital Film Production in SAE Institute Cape Town and obtained a Bachelor Degree in that discipline.
He is the pioneer Preesident of Etsako in diaspora Cape Town South Africa, which is an organisation for the people of Etsako that reside in Cape Town. He is married to Patience Ogedengbe, and he is futuristic, optimistic, happy and fun lover.