Chris Uba
Blue Gate recently displayed more capacities of its online UPS series to several power back-up dealers and stakeholders across the country, in an event which was held in Lagos, recently. Some of the dealers commended the efforts of the company.
One of them, JP Maduaka, from Abuja, who said he had been a dealer for Blue Gate online UPS,for 15 years, added that the review from customers had been very encouraging and reinforcing for him to maintain his dealership. Another dealer, Mr. Hakeem Morounfolu, from Lagos, who said he has five years of dealership with Blue Gate products, said the review availed him the opportunity to offer a wide range of online UPS options and indeed other Blue Gate products to his corporate and individual customers. Executive Director of the company, Amauche Chidozie, said: “We have paid a lot of attention on our processes and quality control mechanisms and with all sense of modesty we can say we have built a track record of excellence, durability, and reliability through our system of quality assurance procedures by constantly pushing ourselves, engaging in robust research and reengineering our processes to fully meet all standards and trending power backup lifestyle needs of our customers. “We are passionate about what we do and love to be of service to our dear customers and business associates. So we are here today as part of our service delivery to meet directly with our partners, show them more capacities of our Online UPS Series, and get their feedbacks on how we can serve them better.” The Blue Gate Product General Manager, Rolland Emuobor, also explained that the Blue Gate Online UPS series are of advanced power backup technology that supplies and maintains continuous electricity supply direct from batteries at Zero Transfer Time to connected equipment, while allowing users ample time switch to preferred power source. ‘’Our Online UPS series are rightly pocket-friendly, easy to use, maintain and a necessity for mission-critical equipment used in our diagnostic centres and hospitals. No one would want the equipment in a hospital theatre, for instance, to fail because of little time lag in power outages or changeovers during surgical operations. Blue Gate Online UPS ensures that there is no-second time lag when changing to any power source. The product further provides assured guards to other industries and sensitive appliances like digital printers, bank ATMs, Server PCs, Air Traffic Control Rooms, elevators/lift/escalators, among others.’’