By Bennett Oghifo Nigerian conglomerate, Coscharis Group has said it would scale down its Lagos operation, and advised their customers, staff and stakeholders not to panic but to take precautionary and safety measures as instructed by the World Health Organization, and the Nigeria Center for Diseases Control. The advice follows the recent global outbreak of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) that has been declared a pandemic by the WHO. This is contained in a statement by General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, Abiona Babarinde. In it, the President of Coscharis Group, Dr. Cosmas Maduka said, “We have been following with great details the global developments as it relates to the COVID–19 health situation which is really unprecedented that has brought the whole world to a standstill. As a responsible corporate entity, we are heeding to government and the health institutions’ advice to ensure the safety of our assets whom are our staff and all our entire stakeholders. We have therefore put in place critical safety precautions in line with required guidelines across all our facilities and business concerns. In line with the Lagos State Governor’s directives, all our Lagos based offices have been directed to drastically scale down number of their staff that will be coming to the office to achieve the required social distance directives while others work from home to be able to continually deliver value for all our stakeholders.” “Some of the measures already put in place are the hand–held scanners to check the temperature of all visitors and staff coming in and out of all our facilities. Automatic and manual dispensers in all touch points within all our locations. Consistent cleaning of critical areas of all our buildings where human traffic occurs. Likewise, all offshore business trips for staff have been put on hold while the foreign partners have equally been advised to stay in their various countries till further notice.” The statement said, “During this challenging period, while we would be exploring options that will reduce physical engagements where it is necessary, to the barest minimum otherwise, we encourage our customers and stakeholders to utilise other platforms like telephones, emails and our website as credible options to engage for our services. “Coscharis group stand by all the efforts of the government to control the spread of this unfortunate virus and encourages every citizens and foreigners alike to remain responsible as we believe this is just a phase that will soon fade away in our lifetime.