Chuks Okocha in Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), wednesday condemned in its entirety, the unjustified banning of some media houses from covering the activities of the Presidency, which it described as a heinous victimisation that was executed in bad faith. A statement issued by the National Publicity Secretary of PDP, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, said the media ban by the Presidency was highly detestable, undemocratic and totally against the provisions of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), the Freedom of Information (FoI) Act as well as the tenets and guiding principles of rule of law. The party noted that the Presidency had no justification for its action and could therefore not give any cogent reason to necessitate the ban. The PDP cautioned the Buhari Presidency to note that the nation, and indeed, the world is currently distressed by the battle against deadly COVID-19. Ologbondiyan pointed out that now is not the time for unnecessary pettiness, victimisation and barring of media houses that could create suspicion in the public space that government has something to hide from the public. He said: “It is indeed instructive for the Presidency to note that the nation is in dire need of hope and direction contained in timely information, especially from the government. “Consequently, clamping down on the media, which is a critical stakeholder in this important effort to defeat COVID-19 is completely at variance with the national interest. “What our nation needs now is for all hands to be on the deck as we collectively seek for solutions.” The PDP, therefore, charged the Presidency to immediately and without any further delay lift the ban on the affected media houses and allow them to discharge their responsibility to the Nigerian people, in line with the provisions of the law and their professional requirements. The PDP also frowned at federal government for cancelling the Tuesday’s media briefing on the COVID-19, which denied Nigerians of very vital information in the process. The party urged the Federal Government to exert itself and seek more concerted effort in the fight against the pandemic.