Didi Edet Didi Edet is an in-house dating coach at Lagosmatchmaker, a focused match-making platform for singles of over 25 years. She is the first United States-certified and award-winning dating coach in Nigeria. She has been matchmaking for over seven years. Didi shares the need for matching-making, challenges of a matchmaker and lots more with Tosin Clegg Tell us more about what you do? I am a certified dating coach with Lagosmatchmaker. We focus on connecting singles above 25 years and letting them enjoy the dating process. We do not delve into the relationship aspect which is a bit broader. We focus on meeting an individual, having a first and second date. Why did you go into match-making? Lagosmatchmaker is a match-making platform for like-minded individuals and was birthed out of the need for privacy in certain aspects of our lives, like dating. A lot of my friends I spoke to wanted to search for a date without letting you known who they are. In this age of Internet fraud, how can one trust online match-making? I don’t think there is any worry with internet fraud with lagosmatchmaker because it’s not strictly an online matching platform. We do have an office located off Admiralty Way, Lekki, Lagos, where clients can come in and have a discussion about the process, if they so wish. But we discovered that a lot of people don’t have the time which is why a lot of our work is done online. Who qualifies you to consult as a match-maker? Anyone with a busy schedule can consult a match-maker. I always say, it’s the same as outsourcing cleaning or cooking because you don’t have the time to do those things yourself. The same way match-making is a service that helps busy people who have little or no time to socialise and meet someone at their convenience. Why are men shying away from making the first move? I would not say men are shying away from making the first move. Men for decades have been told they alone could make the first move but in this new era, women are now able to make the first move. So, you might find an increase in the number of women searching for a man, because it’s new and it’s effective than having to choose a spouse out of just the ones that choose you. These days, you can make a choice rather than choosing from your available options.