Onuminya Innocent in Sokoto The Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has reiterated his administration’s commitment to improving the standard of education in the state through the implementation of policies; construction, renovation and equipping of schools. He said this while declaring open the fifth annual symposium of the America Chemical Society of Nigeria (ACS) with the theme ‘Chemistry, a Viable Tool for Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals’ at the Sokoto State University recently. Tambuwal, who was represented by the Commissioner for Higher Education, Prof. Garba Bashir Tambuwal, commended the society for contributing to the socio-economic development of the country. He said the knowledge of chemistry is critical for the improvement of skills and productivity.
“As a state government, we are committed to raising standards and quality of education. We have demonstrated this by renovating and re-equipping facilities in schools,” he said. Earlier the chairperson of ACS Nigeria chapter, Prof. J A Obaleye thanked the state government for their support in hosting the conference.
He disclosed that ACS as a body, has contributed to the development of the nation, stressing that ACS meritorious awards are competitive because about 28 countries are members of the society. He enjoined students, corporate bodies, industries and individuals to join the society.
On his part, the Chairman of the occasion, Prof. Magaji Garba, the Vice-Chancellor of Federal University, Gusau said Nigeria is yet to exploit 40 per cent of its natural resources. Magaji appealed to the Minister of Science and Technology to implement the communique of the conference for the over-all interest of the country, as crucial issues would be discussed. He enjoined state governor to harness mineral resources in their domain to avoid over dependent on the federal government for monthly allocation.
In his remarks, the Vice-Chancellor of the host university, Prof. Muhammad Sani Dangoggo commended the governor for the initiative taken by his administration that contributed towards the development of education and youths empowerment. He disclosed that the institution is intensifying effort towards making the university an enviable institution in the country.
Dangoggo explained that the university had entered into partnerships with several institutions and research centres by signing memorandum of understanding (MoU) to enhance quality research. He lauded the co-hosts Usman DanFodio University, Sokoto, Federal University, Gusau, Kebbi State University of Science and Technology, Aliero and Federal Birnin Kebbi for surrendering the hosting right to his university. At the end of the event individuals, corporate bodies, industries received awards of excellent.
The Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III was represented at the occasion by District Head of Bodinga, Alhaji Abdullahi Abdurauf.