Nigeria’s social life scene is feeling the heat and drive of Kazeem Adekunle popularly known as Kaziahh who is a Nigerian celebrated socialite and lifeestyle enthusiast. At 13 he relocated to Canada and later on started as an ambitious employee for numerous companies in Canada to set up himself. As soon as he was able to make some money, he invested in the Nigeria oil and gas sector amongst other businesses. Kaziahh is also known for his extravagant lifestyle on the internet and he loves to travel. He has visited numerous countries and still plans to visit more before the end of the year. Speaking on his growing rise he shares, ‘Well, I think my way of life makes me famous. Knowing fully well we all like to be associated with the rich and famous. So I decided to be jovial, I also have brand influencers as friends who usually put me out there in high esteem.’ He is also actively involved in philanthropy and he makes it a duty to always reach out to as many people as possible. Regardless of his lifestyle show off he still shows his heart is closer to home. Speaking about his giving back he says, ‘I love to help a lot and I was taught that by my parents. We always go to orphanage homes and do some charity work. Till date I still celebrate my birthdays at orphanage homes. I’m someone that takes life very easy. I mean, what’s the point of having and not giving . I’m working on having my own foundation soon. Hopefully by next year I should launch my foundation.’ Kaziahh became popular by being a simple rich chap that has always loved to show off. From money, to cars down to doing giveaway to his fans on Social media. Hé is also regarded to as one of Nigeria’s big spenders whose brazen display of wealth and unique lifestyle is known to practically all Nigerians that are active on Instagram alongside the big names such as Hush Puppi, Jowizazaa, Willie XO, Prettymike and a lot more. Winning over 6 awards he is now a household name in the Nigerian Entertainment industry as he has carved a Niche for himself over the years.