The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Ekiti state government on the construction of transmission lines and associated substations Ado Ekiti – Ilupeju and Ado Ekiti – Ijesha Ishu. A statement from the TCN explained that the transmission system would include 132/33 kilovolt (kV) line and associated 2X60 megavolt amp (MVA) 132/33kV substations at Ilupeju and Ijesha Ishu. It would effectively bring to an end Ekiti’s reported cases of low electricity voltage. It quoted the Governor of Ekiti, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, who was respresented by his Deputy, Mr. Bisi Egbeyemi, to have expressed delight at the agreement which he noted would in new transmission lines and substations to improve power supply in the state. Fayemi, stated that presently, the state has only one 132kV transmission substation which he added was inadequate for it.
He explained that the projects when completed would provide conducive environment for industrial development in Ekiti, adding that his administration was deeply concerned about improving the state’s infrastructure and help its residents attain economic stability. He also urged the TCN to consider the state in its network expansion plans to boost bulk power supply to it.
The governor reportedly assured that the state would create an enabling environment for the TCN to effectively complete the project, noting that the people of the state have lost confidence in the power sector but that measures including TCN projects would help restore that. Fayemi, urged other stakeholders in the power sector to upgrade their facilities while developing synergy for better electricity services in the state.
The statement also noted that the Commissioner for Public Utilities, Mr. Dele Fagbanusi said that the MoU signifies a physical attempt to reduce the perpetual low power voltage and positively impact economic activities in the lives of the 82,300 electricity consumers within the 134 communities in the 16 local government areas of the state. According to him, the signing of the MoU was the result of the commitment of Fayemi to finding solution to the poor power situation in the state.
The state he explained, would take care of the Right of Way (RoW) and provide land for the two substations which he urged the TCN to complete within schedule. Also, in the statement, the Managing Director of the TCN, Mr. Usman Mohammed who was represented by the company’s Head of Transmission Service Provider (TSP), Mr. Victor Adewumi said that TCN will start the 132kV double circuit lines and substations projects at Ilupeju and Ijesha Ishu simultaneously. He acknowledged that the singular 132kV transmission substation in the state was inadequate which is why the TCN chose to collaborate with the state government on the new transmission infrastructure. On completion of the projects, the Mohammed noted that the voltage profile of electricity in Ekiti will normalise.
He said that the collaboration with the state would ensure a fast delivery of the projects, adding that it would be completed by the end of the second quarter of 2021. The MoU according to the statement specifically put the responsibility of providing the RoW for the transmission project and the provision of land for the two substation projects on the government of Ekiti, while the TCN would be responsible for procuring the equipment, engineering works, installation and commissioning of the substations and lines.