Prof. Pat Utomi will be the keynote speaker at the Catholic Brothers United (CBU) annual lecture scheduled to take place on Sunday, April 26, 2020, at the St. Agnes Catholic Church, Maryland, Lagos. Themed, “Entrepreneurship: A Tool for Mitigating Unemployment for National Growth,’ the event is to congregate key business leaders and thought-leaders with the aims of equipping business owners and potential entrepreneurs with critical skills necessary for the 21st-century marketplace. Other discussants at the event include Mrs. Ifeyinwa Ugochukwu, who is a seasoned administrator and the Managing Director of Tony Elumelu Foundation, TEF; Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata, the Co-founder, GoDoHub.org and Director, Founder Institute; Mrs. Ndidi Nwuneli, Founder, LEAD Africa, and managing partner, Sahel Consulting, and would be moderated by Rev. Fr. George Ehusani, the Director Lux Terra Leadership Foundation. Commenting on the annual lecture, the chairman of the organizing committee, Mr. Gabriel Akumhegie, said the event would offer business owners, entrepreneurs and executives exceptional opportunities to gain insights and practical knowledge from established industry experts, to further enable them to make balanced and informed decisions in their respective roles. Akumhegie, said available data could help improve business decisions in so many ways, one of which is efficiency gains.
“These gains are valuable because they can improve not only individual businesses, but entire markets and society as a whole,” he added. He said the annual lecture would be uncovering key leadership principles, innovation possibilities and leveraging available data that has the potential to positively impact businesses, individuals and the Nigerian economy at large. On the choice of the topic, Akumhegie explained that because entrepreneurship is a tool for people pursuing careers in business creation and other related fields, it has become an interested topic given the level of unemployment in the country and the new policy direction of government to equip the youth to take up careers that will help them develop their talents and contribute to economic growth of the country.