As a way of strengthening the impact of its flagship children scholarship scheme, Kellogg’s said that it has increased the number of beneficiaries of the scheme to 100 from the previous 50. The firm has also informed that it would stop accepting entry for the 2nd edition of the initiative by the end of March, 2020. The scholarship scheme is such that gives children an opportunity to take part in Kellogg’s contest after which they qualify for reward based on their performances. According to the firm, Kellogg’s Superstars contest is a school-based essay writing competition designed for primary school pupils to sharpen their writing skills while also bringing out their creative talent. The essay contest was introduced in March 2019 and reached out to more than 1.8 million pupils at approximately 12,000 schools across Rivers, Lagos and Oyo State in Nigeria. At the end of the competition, 50 outstanding pupils emerged and cumulatively received N5 million worth of scholarship. This year, the competition will produce 100 winners, scaling up the scholarship value to 10 million naira. Marketing Manager of Kellogg’s, Mr. Darlington Igabali, hinted that the programme this year has been extended to cover north central region of Nigeria (Abuja) in addition to Lagos and Ibadan. “ In January 2020, entries were declared open to all primary schools within these regions with the task to write a short and concise essay of not more than 100 words on the topic “Why my Mum is a Super Mum”, this will see hundred outstanding pupils emerge as winners to receive a N100, 000 worth of scholarship each. “This edition topic was carefully crafted because the brand recognises the value and the contribution of mothers to growth in the society , while on the other hand, the contest coincidentally falls within the period when mothers are globally celebrated (International Mother’s Day),” he said. “It is important to note that the essay writing competition is generally open to children within the Age bracket of 6 -11 years old whose schools fall under the three identified cities, we also receive entries directly on our facebook and Instagram platforms”, Darlington explained. Speaking further, Public Relations Manager, Tolaram Group, Mrs. Omotayo Abiodun, stated that the the initiative was borne out of the brand’s passion to contribute to the development of education in the country. She added that initiative aligned with the company’s belief that that supporting children’s education at a very tender age would pave way for a brighter tomorrow for the children and country at large. Winners will be determined by judges who will sit to deliberate on the most outstanding hundred entries . The winners will be announced in April. Beyond the essay contest, Kellogg’s has been working on providing the right start for children through the Kellogg’s Superstars programme. The firm has also invested in building educational infrastructures; reading and literacy initiative; scholarships; business-education partnerships; and other needs towards ensuring a brighter opportunities for the Nigerian children.