Ndubuisi Francis in Abuja The Domestic Tax Operation Group (DTOG) of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has assured the management and board of the Service that it will work to enable the revenue agency achieve its N8.5 trillion revenue target for 2020. The TOG made the commitment in a communique it issued at the end of its two-day 2020 Tax Operation Group Retreat in Abuja. FIRS had posted a N3.7 trillion shortfall out of the N8.8 trillion projected for the 2019 fiscal year. According to the communique, “The participants expressed their resolve to remain committed and continue to work hard towards realising the N8.5 trillion revenue target set for the Service. TOG unanimously agreed that, with the new Management’s determination to empower and motivate the staff, the target would not only be achieved but be surpassed.” The group described tax evasion practices in Nigeria as worrisome, stressing that “there is an urgent need to intensify enforcement action to stem the situation”. TOG said the Service will keep track of all taxable entities’ company’s compliance behaviour and compliance with the use of compliance programmes, especially by integrating FIRS’ e-solution platforms with “the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS), the Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS) and integrating Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) with Bank Verification Number (BVN)”. The communique added: “The promotion of quality service delivering to taxpayers necessarily requires the adoption of technology. The Service was therefore admonished to intensify efforts towards completing the various ICT intervention, including the on-going VAT automation as well as the need to build a centralised taxpayer database to ease access to information.” In his keynote address at the retreat, the Executive Chairman, FIRS, Mr. Muhammad Nami, who identified the TOG as the engine room of the Service, listed various policy measures and reforms he had taken to motivate the TOG and the FIRS as a whole so that they can deliver on the tax revenue target.