As part of efforts to connect with his fans and music lovers across the world, as he promotes his seventh studio album, music superstar 2Baba tours the United States. Ferdinand Ekechukwu reports With the Release of “Warriors”, his seventh studio album a fortnight ago, music superstar, Innocent Idibia, aka 2Baba, has set out on a media tour which will see the veteran connect with his fans and music lovers across the world as he promotes the new project. The move to tour media across boarder isn’t unexpected going by his status as an internationally-recognised music superstar. It’s been a hectic period already for the prince of Afrobeats/afro-pop, who just released his brand new album to rave reviews from listeners all over the world. For the media tour, his first stop was at OkayAfrica, a digital media platform in the U.S. on February 28, where he did an Instagram Live takeover and discussed the album which was released the same day. The tour continued with the music legend being a guest on AfroFlava radio show in New York, hosted by Sana Kibs and DJ Jonquick. He was also at V103 radio show hosted by Ossei the Dark Secret and Cassius Clay in Atlanta. 2Baba also had a hangout with journalist Ivie Ani, Christine Imarenezor and William Ketchum at Vibe in NY and also shot on an episode of My Drive on CNN. The eventful tour also featured meetings with record label executives at Tidal, Sony Music, Roc Nation, and the iconic Apollo Theatre in Harlem. Warriors currently tops the iTunes chart in Nigeria and has produced two top 10 singles “Opo” featuring Wizkid and “We Must Groove” featuring self-acclaimed African Giant, Burna Boy, with a potential for more top 10 hits as fans continue to gush about the new body of work and pick their favourites. The vibrant visual for “We Must Groove” shot by award-winning video director, Patrick Elis, was first previewed at the well-attended album listening party held in Lagos on February 25. It was finally made public upon the release of the album. Expectedly, great reviews flowed right after the album listening party as expectation for the album doubled for everyone in attendance. “Warriors” is a key offering of the #20YearsAKing project which he celebrated with a yearlong event in 2019. The 13 track record captures the hunger, work ethic and fighter mentality that has earned 2Baba over 20 unbroken years of trailblazing and industry dominance. It pays tribute to dogged and resilient champions everywhere who keep winning through ever-changing trends and circumstances. This album comes six years after his last album, The Ascension, which was released in 2014. The album contains previously released singles like Amaka, Oyi and Important. The album shows 2Baba’s ability to adjust to industry trends as he has a different vibe from his previously released albums. Although critics and music journalists have had their takes on the album good or bad, it is significant in ways. On Warriors, 2Baba breaks the streak of releasing albums with no title track. “This is the first time I’ll have a song in the album with the title of the album. My other albums, the title has nothing to do with the songs. After that song, Warrior, all the other songs are to enjoy ourselves. I hope you enjoy it. If e wack make you tell me, if e no wack, one love,” he said in his usual lingo during the album listening party. It includes previously released singles like ‘Important’, ‘Oyi’ and the Peruzzi-assisted smash hit, ‘Amaka’. The star studded LP also boasts big-name collaborations and features an array of artistes including Burna Boy, Wizkid, Olamide, Tiwa Savage and Peruzzi. It also features AJ, Symeca and his daughter, HI Idibia. In this latest offering, 2Baba gives fans a little bit of everything – Afrobeats, Afropop, R&B and reggae. 