Leading Consumer Goods Company in Nigeria, Procter & Gamble, is supporting the Integrated Medical Outreach Program (I-MOP) of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency and the Federal Ministry of Health through the donation of 500,000 Pampers® diapers. The I-MOP program which was flagged off at the Bwari Township Primary Health Center, Abuja, will strengthen primary health and increase immunization rates in Nigeria. P&G is a force for good and a force for growth in the communities where it operates. Over the years, P&G’s operations in Nigeria touch thousands of lives with economic prosperity while its citizenship efforts touch over 5 million people. The company’s donation of Pampers® diapers to NPHCDA will incentivize mothers to immunize their children through this outreach. This partnership with NPHCDA is a continuation of the Pampers® Project Rigakafi – which means prevention – which has also supported Ogun and Kebbi state governments to improve health outcomes of over 30,000 babies in peri-urban and rural areas of the states. In his remarks, the Vice President, Federal Republic of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, noted that the I-MOP intervention is aimed at strengthening and scaling up access to routine immunization and other primary healthcare (PHC) services in the selected low performing 409 councils in the country. He added that the Federal Government of Nigeria maintains a policy to provide free immunization services against all vaccine preventable diseases (VPDs) and encouraged citizens to utilize these services. In addition, the Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer, National Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr. Faisal Shuaib encouraged the rural citizens, particularly, mothers and caregivers to ensure that they secure the health and future of their children by seizing the opportunity provided by this programme to visit the selected primary health care centers nearest to them. He also thanked partners such as Procter & Gamble for supporting the program. For over 25 years in Nigeria, Procter & Gamble, producer of notable brands like Always®, Ariel®, Pampers®, Gillette®, Oral B® and Safeguard®, has been an active investor in Nigeria, creating over 4,000 jobs through its manufacturing operations in Ibadan and Lagos and its world class distributor center in Agbara. P&G’s Children Safe Drinking Water program (CSDW) has provided hundreds of million liters of safe drinking water in Nigeria helping to prevent possible death and disease from contaminated water while its Always/UNESCO program is empowering over 110,000 Nigerian girls and women with basic literacy and skills development through ICT in Northern Nigeria. In addition, P&G SME Academy – in partnership with the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Investment – has trained hundreds of SMEs on basic business management training and skills to improve their standards, ensure longevity and enable their integration into global value chains.