By Kasim Sumaina Street Business School has empowered not less than 30 indigent women in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The Street Business School by SI4DEV is a six-months mobile business training, designed to serve the unique needs of individuals living in poverty by enabling them to be agent of change, supporting them to start sustainable business ventures such that they can have a reliable income stream long into the future. Operation/Publicity Manager, Patricia Okolo, while speaking recently on the sidelines of the graduation ceremony for first set of beneficiaries in Orozo and Lugbe-kauta communities in FCT, said the aim of the program was to empower women for developing business concept with or without finances. According to Okolo, the institution started in Uganda by the bead-for-life, a non- profit organisation on a mission to end extreme poverty. “The street business school program is now implemented in 14 counties in Africa. SI4DEV is the first organisation implementing the Street business school in Nigeria. “We started in August, 2019, with the recruitment and selection process, and was delivered in six communities in Nigeria. “Ninety people enrolled for the program in Bayelsa State (Yenegwe community), Abuja(Orozo and Lugbe Sauka Kahuta community), Kano state( Sabon gari 1 and Sabon gari 2) and Lagos state(Ikotun Community).” Okolo added: “That the program is done in rural communities for women in other to plug the of poverty gap and make them self- sufficient going into future businesses.” She stated that the 30 graduands were among the first set of beneficiaries in Nigeria. “This is the first batch we are having so far in Nigeria involving six communities, three states, and two locations in Abuja. “A lot of them actually have business ideas but, having the issue of financial constraints or actually running a business but don’t have the concept or skills of maintaining and running a business continuously.” She further revealed that during the training, they taught the women how to generate capital either by doing minimal jobs that don’t require much of their time, cleaning and doing other things to generate little funds and then start one or two businesses, “This is a mobile business classroom with trainings held in the local communities. It is a LOVE + Business model that seek to bring marginalised people around the planet into self- sufficiency. “So the program has really changed their lives and we believe in the next three months they will be self-sufficient and be able to help their families,” she added. AfDB Supports Blue Economy with $800,000 Grant
The African Development Bank has signed an $800,000 grant agreement with the government of Seychelles to support micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in its Blue Economy sector.
The package would help Seychelles develop its marine biotechnology sector, strengthen the capacity of public institutions and private operators, create a knowledge platform on emerging business opportunities, and provide technical and financial training to MSMEs. The $1million project would be financed through a grant from the Fund for African Private Sector Assistance (FAPA), which will provide $800,000 and $200,00 million from the Seychelles government. FAPA is a multi-donor thematic trust fund that provides grant funding for technical assistance and capacity building to support the implementation of the Bank’s Private Sector Development Strategy. According to a statement, the Governments of Japan and Austria, and the African Development Bank are active contributors to the fund. Seychelles’ Minister for Finance, Trade, Investment and Economic Planning, Ambassador Maurice Loustau-Lalanne, signed a grant agreement on 13 March in Victoria, with Nnenna Nwabufo, Acting Director General for Eastern Africa Regional Office signing on behalf of the African Development Bank. The Seychelles’ Blue economy is an important centerpiece of the country’s National Development Strategy 2019-2023. An innovative approach by its government, envisages tapping on the economic potential of Seychelles’ vast exclusive economic zone of 1,374,000 km2, to promote socio-economic development and inclusive growth. The country’s Blue Economy Strategic Policy and Road map prioritises the development of new and emerging maritime sectors, including marine-based aquaculture, renewable energy, offshore petroleum, and marine biotechnology, with MSMEs being an important vehicle for growth. Other expected beneficiaries include youth and women engaged in marine biotechnology activities. The project includes training of about 100 entrepreneurs, half of whom should be women, creation of 20 MSMEs in marine biotechnology sector, and the development of MSMEs’ Biotechnology Entrepreneurship Development Strategy. PwC Unveils Solution to Simplify Tax Process PwC Nigeria has unveiled, TaxTim, a new solution which helps individuals and sole-proprietors compute their tax and prepare their returns online. With the changes in the tax environment, individuals, sole-traders and partnerships now have to pay more attention to tax matters, and ensure effective compliance including the prompt filing of their returns in line with the tax laws. According to a statement, state governments previously focused a lot of attention on PAYE but are now asking questions whether there are incomes from rental, ‘side-hustle’, trading or professions that individuals need to declare. “One of the reasons often cited for why many businesses and individuals do not pay their taxes is because the process can be complex and cumbersome, and taxpayers are not sure of how much to compute or interpret the tax law. “TaxTim, a web-based chatbot, helps taxpayers correctly compute their tax returns online with the help of a virtual assistant called Tim, so that they can file the correct amount to the tax authorities,” the statement explained. It quoted the Partner Tax Reporting & Strategy, PwC Nigeria, Kenneth Erikume, to have said: “By answering simple questions that do not require any tax knowledge, Tim will convert your answers into a fully completed tax return, which taxpayers can then submit to the respective Internal Revenue Services. The entire process can be completed within 20 minutes. “The real value here is that with TaxTim, the process of paying taxes has become a lot simpler and more efficient”. The solution comes at an important time as the deadline for filing tax returns under Section 44 of personal income tax act (PITA) is 31st March, the statement added. “It is thus important that taxpayers realise that they have a civil obligation to compute and file their returns themselves, even if they are in paid employment, and TaxTim can assist them in this process. “Already there are commercials by agencies like the Lagos Internal Revenue Services (LIRS) about this, with reminders on the penalties applicable to individuals who fail to do this by the due date. “TaxTim is maintained by registered tax practitioners. Subscribers to the web-based solution will have access to the knowledge of these professionals and can complete and submit their tax returns to the authorities with confidence,” it added.