Mary Nnah The Association of Nigerian Women Business Network (ANWBN), has advised government to do its best and ensure that the citizens are protected from the corona virus pandemic. Speaking through its National Coordinator, Chief (Mrs) Anita Nana Okuribido, the association lamented lack of infrastructure in the health sector and how Govt has been so lackadaisical on a very important issue like health and wellness of Nigerians. Her words: “Moreover WomenPreneurs who form 80% of SMEs in Nigeria are badly affected by this pandemic with a devastating declined in their business.” “In recent months a novel virus known as the corona virus has spread infecting hundreds of thousands of people and impacting humankind societally. And while we have yet to see the immeasurable impact that will follow the pandemic—due to state and countrywide shutdowns, social distancing, the closure of countless businesses including Women Owned Businesses, and/or transition to remote work for millions across the world—we have begun to witness its grave impact on our global economy”, she added. Speaking further Okuribido said, “WomenPreneurs in particular are one of the populations that have been greatly affected economically by the COVID-19 pandemic. From marketing and branding to occupational therapy, mental health to feminine health care and in between, businesses have been forced to continuously adapt to the changing tides.’ ANWBN Women Entrepreneurs, she informed, share their concerns as we prepare our Policy Recommendations with the High Rate of Insecurity – COVID-19 being at the front burner of the Priority Issues of the Women National Business Agenda and how Women are navigating the effects of COVID-19 on their Businesses.’ With the uprise of COVID-19, which has led to a lock down on businesses, she advised that Women Entrepreneurs should temporarily shift to consultations online. “Fortunately, we have been able to retain a bulk of our clientele without necessarily having to be there physically. As a team, we should now focus heavily on providing more of our digital marketing services (E- Commerce) which allow us to work remotely. The biggest lesson thus learnt so far with the emergence of the COVI-19 Pandemic, is to always invest in a digital skill set.