By Chuks Okocha The Director General of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Asishana Okauru, and his wife, Ifueko Okauru,who is former Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), have embarked on self-isolation after having contacts with several persons that have tested positive for the coronavirus. In a statement Wednesday morning signed by him, Okauru said, “I wish to inform the general public that my wife together with my entire household will be proceeding on self-isolation. “We are taking this action following my exposure to His Excellency, Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State who today announced the positive outcome of his test for COVID-19”. He said that he attended different meetings of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum and the Nigerian Economic Council last week, which were also attended by the Bauchi State Governor. Consequently, he announced, “my wife and I would be undergoing COVID-19 testing this week”. Okauru further stated that all of the organizations to which his wife is affiliated have already begun ‘Work from Home’ in line with earlier Government directive. In fact, he said, “through DAGOMO Foundation Nigeria Ltd/GTE, and in her personal capacity, my wife was already in the forefront of raising awareness around COVID-19. “All members of NGF secretariat that were exposed will be observing self isolation. We encourage all those who were invited to the NGF meetings for presentations to also do same. “By our actions, we hope to encourage others who are exposed and not sure of their status to undergo self-isolation and make themselves available for the test, where applicable”, the governors forum Director General said. He said that at the NGF meetings held, “all necessary precautions as advised by the NCDC were taken, but we cannot make any assumptions about our status. We will self-isolate and take the stringent measures possible to protect the general public.” Meanwhile, the meeting of governors scheduled for Wednesday to discuss the health impacts of the coronavirus on the economies of states has been put off. No new date has been fixed for the meeting .