Francis Sardauna The Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola, on Friday said the federal government has completed 18 out of the 43 internal road projects being constructed in different tertiary institutions across the country. The minister disclosed this at the Federal College of Education, Katsina, while handing over a 1.22km road rehabilitated and constructed by the federal government. He said that the intervention on roads in tertiary institutions was part of effort to bridge the infrastructural deficit in the country, adding that the President Muhamnadu Buhari-led administration has stepped up work in all sectors of the economy. Fashola, represented by the Katsina State Federal Controller of Works and Housing, said so far, 18 out of the 43 ongoing internal road projects have been completed in different institutions of higher learning. He reaffirmed that the rehabilitation and construction of internal roads in tertiary institutions was targeted at making learning less stressful, as the students have expressed enthusiasm with regards to attending classes because some defective roads have been made motorable. “The gap of our infrastructure needs is steadily been bridged by gradual process of repairs renewal and construction on the highway and it has reached the schools. “To date, 18 out of the 43 interventions have been completed and today (Friday), we hand over this one in Federal College of Education, Katsina, Katsina State as a critical contribution to support education. “During the construction, 25 people were employed in the process, contributing to the job creation initiatives of the government. It is hoped that the school will now ensure that this asset is used properly and not aborted,” he added. In his remarks, the Provost of the College, Dr. Aliyu Idris Funtua, who applauded the initiative of the federal government, described the project as a relief to the institution. He said the road project would not only improve on the learning process of the students but also impacted on the ambience of the college. The provost called for more of such interventions in the institution in order to further enhance the academic standards of the college. “The intervention has positively improved the physical infrastructure of the college. This road, which is now the best road in the college, has touched six out of the seven schools of the college. “While appreciating the honourable minister for a job well done, we are humble soliciting for your gracious approval of reconstruction and rehabilitation of the 10 kilometres of internal roads of the college,” he said.