With the growing concern over the spread of COVID-19, the organisers of iREP International Documentary Film Festival announced the postponement of the festival. In a statement signed by the Executive Director and Co-founder, Femi Odugbemi, the organisers while commending the loyalty for their long standing partners and international collaborators said that the inability of their resource persons and guests outside of Nigeria to attend the festival “is quite unfortunate, and moving the festival to a later date when we might all be able to celebrate the 10th anniversary of iREP Film Festival together, is a good course of action”. This year marked the 10th anniversary of iREP which was conceived by Odugbemi, Jahman Anikulapo and Makin Soyinka. The trio are responsible for the growth of young documentary filmmakers in the continent. The grand celebration was initially scheduled to take place from March 19-22. “We have constantly followed global developments on COVID-19 and have been monitoring appropriate sources for accurate and up-to-date information, and we believe our decision is the responsible thing to do, more so as we are expecting guests from Europe and America.” The postponement comes as more social events are being cancelled all over the globe. The Louvre Museum in Paris already shut its doors, Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival which usually records huge crowds postponed this year’s event to October. The Met Gala, the iconic fashion event recently announced the postponement of the show. Tribeca Film Festival also postponed the festival indefinitely. In Nigeria, though few cases of COVID-19 have been recorded, conscious efforts are being taken to curb the health crisis. “Going forward,” the statement continued, “We would continuously monitor the situation and evaluate the risk actively. A new date would be communicated to the public very soon. We recognise that this is a challenging period globally, much as we are committed to the arts, we are equally committed to the safety of our guests, staff and our country”.