By Bennett Oghifo in Lagos and Chuks Okocha Former Senator Ben Murray-Bruce has said that he is broken by the death of his wife, Evelyn, as she battled cancer. Announcing the sad passage, yesterday, via his Twitter handle, Senator Ben Bruce, founder of Silverbird Group posted, “I’m broken. Just lost my beautiful wife to cancer. She was my best friend for 43 years and my wife for 41 years. “Our children are devastated, I am too. But I have to be strong for them. Please put our family in your prayers. Like the sun, my wife was a blessing and touched the lives of everyone she met. Though she’s gone, she’d remain alive in our hearts forever.” The Peoples Democratic Party, in a condolence message, signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said “Indeed, Evelyn’s death is a huge blow and irreparable loss not only to the Bruce family, but also to the PDP, the people of Bayelsa state and the nation at large, given her roles and sacrifices towards the development of humanity. “Despite her challenges and eventual death, Evelyn Murray-Bruce radiated life, love, happiness and piety. She was a dutiful wife, dedicated mother; a good soul and epitome of humility, honesty, hardwork and exceptional philanthropy and hospitality.”. PDP described her as an exemplary companion who stood as a pillar behind her husband in his selfless service towards the development of our nation as a political leader, nationalist, legislator, businessman and philanthropist. According to the statement, “Though we mourn, we find solace in the fact that she lived as a devout Christian and dedicated her life to the service of God, the good of humanity and now rests in the bosom of the Lord.” The PDP therefore consoled Senator Ben-Murray Bruce, the entire Bruce family, the Silverbird family as well as the government and people of Bayesla state and prays God to grant all the fortitude to bear this painful loss. Also, President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, commiserated with the entire family of the Senator, who represented Bayelsa East Senatorial District in the Eigth Senate and the people of Bayelsa State, over the tragic loss. He said the late Mrs Murray-Bruce was a pillar of support for her husband and their entire family, saying her untimely passage has left a void that will be difficult to fill. Lawan urged Senator Murray-Bruce to take solace from the enviable life that she lived and the fond memories she left with all those whose lives she touched. The Senate President prayed that God should comfort the Senator, the children and other loved ones she left behind and grant them the fortitude to bear the loss.