A Federal High Court in Abuja wednesday ordered the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) to vary the conditions it attached to the bail it granted suspended Chairman of the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property (SPIP), Ekoi Obono-Obla. Justice Ahmed Mohammed, in a ruling, said should the ICPC fails to comply with the order made, it (the ICPC) will be summoned to show cause why the court should not order the release of applicant from its custody. Justice Mohammed made the order while ruling on an ex-patre application filed and argued on Wednesday by Obono-Obla’s lawyer, F. Baba Isa, who prayed the court for the release of his client from ICPC’s custody pending the determination of a substantive suit he filed. The judge said: “Upon reading the applicant motion exparte, the supporting affidavit and exhibits attached, it is clear that he has already been granted bail. “The grouse of the applicant is that the conditions attached are impossible to fulfill in view of the present lock down of the country. It is also clear that the International passport of the applicant is with the respondent. “It is hereby ordered that the conditions attached to the bail of the applicant be reviewed to enable him meet with same. “But if the respondent fails to review the bail conditions, it will be directed to appear before the court to show cause why the application for the release of the applicant should not be granted.” Justice Mohammed ordered that the order of the court, the hearing notice and other processes be served on the respondent before the next adjourned date fixed for April 1, 2020. Isa, while arguing the application, told the court that his client is unable to fulfill the above conditions which he described as stringent. He told the court that although the commission had granted his client an administrative bail, it has attached stringent conditions which can not be met in view of the ravaging coronavirus pandemic. Some of the conditions attached to his administrative bail include two sureties in the rank of a Permanent Secretary and a Director who are in the employment of the Federal government on grade level 17 and above, the sureties must have landed property situated at Maitama, Guzape or Asokoro with original Certificate of Occupancy verified from the appropriate land agency. In addition, the administrative bail which comes with a N10m bond required that the sureties to produce letters of appointment, letters of last promotion, identity cards and a passport photograph. They are also to produce introduction letters from their superior officers in their offices. In a 23 paragraph affidavit in support of the motion, the respondent, Opatola Victor averred that Obono-Obla has some health challenges that require urgent medical attention. Obono-Obla, currently being held ICPC’s custody was arrested five months after he was declared wanted in October last year by the ICPC. ICPC’s spokesperson, Mrs. Rasheedat Okoduwa, had disclosed that he was arrested in Abuja on Friday March 20, along Aso Drive, opposite the Millennium Park. His arrest and detention was in connection with ongoing investigation into allegations of abuse of office, certificate forgery and fraud amongst others. President Muhammadu Buhari in August 2019, suspended Obono-Obla from office with an instruction that the suspension order took immediate effect. In a letter dated, August 14, 2019, and signed by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, Obono-Obla was accused of “falsification of records and financial impropriety.” Obono-Obla has consistently refuted the allegations, accusing some highly-placed Nigerians of orchestrating his removal from office. “I have suffered so much persecution and witch-hunting because of the fact that I have carried out my assignment with patriotism, dedication, commitment, and conviction. “I don’t deserve this persecution and witch-hunt because of my refusal to be disloyal to Mr. President and allow the office of the Vice President to use the Panel to serve the vested interest,” he said. “The ICPC which is now being used against me is under the protege of the Vice President, Professor Bolaji Owasanoye. Professor Bolaji Owasanoye was part and parcel of the conspirators against me! “I was also persecuted by the National Assembly. The whole issue of my purported certificate forgery was masterminded by the House of Representatives to get back at me because I had the guts to initiate an investigation against some powerful senators.