Steve Chuks Never Be Scared of Failing Steve Chuks is an actor, host, vlogger, brand influencer and online comedian. He has starred in several Nollywood movies and series over time. In 2017, he started making Instagram skits where he introduced his characters ‘Madam Gold’ and ‘Cleopatra’. Both characters have become house hold names in the Nigerian entertainment space and social media circle. The young creative strives to be known for his work and not the name hence, the producton of his YouTube series “The Steve Chuks Show” which has over 100,000 views at the moment. Again, with his annual show, “I Be Man” which has been a success so far, Chuks is unstoppable. He talks about his journey around entertainer, formative years and those that inspire his craft, among other things, in this chat with Azuka Ogujiuba You act, influence and create content online. How did it all start? I have always wanted to act. It’s been my passion since I was a child but I started officially in 2013. Starred in my first movie titled ‘To have and to hold’ by Alex mouth. I also got into school and was studying theatre arts around the same time which gave me a chance to explore stage and star in plays such as Wizard of law, Human Cargo among others. I was also creating contents on YouTube on the side and running a blog. Why did you decide to name your characters “Madam Gold” and “Cleopatra?” Which other characters do you have? Give us a line and the personality behind these characters? The names don’t have any specific thing tied to them. My younger sister loved the name Cleopatra Williams growing up, so I kind of stole it from her lol. As for Madam Gold, I always heard the name growing up, so it kind of stuck with me and when I decided to play a mother figure character it had to be Madam Gold!; especially because I had already played a similar character back then in school on stage. I have about five other characters, Sister Ebele, Karen Jide, Chief Chike, Udodi, etc. With respect to the personality behind these characters, it’s basically from the society. I try to create characters that are very relatable so as to enjoy the skits better, hence I pay more attention to my acting in my videos. Your show, ‘I Be Man’ has been widely accepted since your started. At what point did you decide to have your own show? ‘I Be man,’ is not just a show or a play. It’s a vision to stop toxic masculinity. I knew that I had gathered fans that turned family so I wanted to use the medium to push a motion dear to me hence I started the play which has had two shows since 2018 and I don’t plan to ever stop it. Have you always been comical? Lol. I guess I can say yes! I have always loved making people laugh and people have always called me funny. As far as what you do is concerned, who do you look up to? Genevieve Nnaji and Leonardo Dicaprio have always been my major inspirations for going into the acting and I look up to them majorly!! In the skits ‘making game,’ I really love Maraji and her creativity inspires me. We have loads of people coming up with skits these days, what stands you out? I think it’s the originality and reliability that stand me out. I try not to copy or follow a wagon. Tell us about your formative years? I’m an only son with two sisters. I lost my dad to the hands of armed robbers at an early age, so my mother basically raised me. I was around women all the time growing up and it made me appreciate them more. My childhood wasn’t rosy as I got first hand ticket to see how single mothers struggle. My strong queen of a mother who raised all three children alone, with school fees etc really helped my growth. I basically understood life early through the struggles of my single mum raising three children. There were times it got so bad but we thank God today. Give us an insight into your educational background and career? I attended Genesis Primary School then moved on to Unique Heights Secondary School; then I studied theatre arts at the University of Lagos. I joined some private stage groups at the time to better my stage presence and acting. While I was in Unilag, I was attending movie auditions and I got a few by-pass roles in movies and series which include The agony, Hush and Industreet. I then went ahead with my NYSC in Lagos State. How did your background shape your life? My background helped me become the man that I am today! From my home, to the University I attended to the society in general. It helped me put my life in perspective and understanding most of what I know today. What was the best gift you remember receiving as a child? A mini toy driving car my father bought or money lol. I didn’t get so many gifts as a child. What do you consider the biggest mistake you have ever made? Probably a bad investment but I tend not look at mistakes. What are some of the lessons life has taught you? Always remember there’s tomorrow and that it’s okay to fall and rise back! Never be scared of failing! What are your plans moving forward? I plan on returning back to the acting game, producing and directing my own movie, going to film school, having a full YouTube series with all my characters, venturing into my love for fashion and producing more stage plays that focuses on social courses. I am presently on the set of a series titled “Dr. Love” and produced by Uche Jombo.