By Benjamin Nworie The Ebonyi State Governor, Chief David Umahi, has ordered the immediate closure of all private and public nursery, primary, secondary and tertiary institutions in the state. The directive was part of measures to curtail the spread of the ravaging coronavirus pandemic in the state. In a statement by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Dr. Kenneth Ugbala, the governor also closed down night clubs and restricted night activities in the state. Umahi also directed the Ministry of Health and State Committee on Anti Coronavirus to deploy all health officers in all markets, rice mills, banks and other public event management centres to carry out test on people. The statement reads: “I am directed by His Excellency , the Governor of Ebonyi State, Engr. Chief David Nweze Umahi, FNSE, FNATE to request all private and public schools from nursery and primary schools, secondary and tertiary institutions to round up and close down their school activities by twelve noon of 20th March, 2020. “Government by this announcement directs all security agencies to ensure that all private and public schools are immediately closed down in line with this directive. “The Ministry of Health and State Committee on Anti coronavirus are hereby directed that they should deploy all health officers to all markets, rice mills, quarry, banks and other public event management centres to carry out test on people randomly. “All the night clubs and other night activities are by this announcement closed down. Every gathering of more than 50 persons in our religious worship centres are hereby prohibited. All markets and religious centres must deploy a strategy of hand sanitizers and deploy other temperature checks at their entry and exit places. “The state government shall meet with religious leaders in few days to discuss on the gathering of their worship centres. State shall also start on Monday the 23rd of March, to do stop and test to all people entering Ebonyi State as a way of safeguarding our people. “The health workers are immediately directed by this announcement by Friday, 21st March to move from house to house to use 150 infrared  thermometer  device to test all Ebonyians.  Government of Ebonyi State has proactively built testing and quarantine centres at Unity square and the  border between Enugu and Ebonyi and shall build more at all the exit and entering points of Ebonyi State as a way of ensuring that the health of everybody entering or exiting Ebonyi State is ascertained. “Ebonyians are advised against hand shaking and hugging, eating of animals has been identified as means of contracting the virus should be avoided as a way of protecting themselves. Coronavirus/Lassar fever scourge  are realities in Nigeria and all these are measures taken in Ebonyi State to protect Ebonyians. Ebonyi State Government strongly advised self isolation/quarantine for all those coming from outside the country. “Prevention is better than cure hence, the Government of Ebonyi State has charged everyone to keep his or her environment clean and those that keep pets should be mindful of how they touch the animals as you wash your hands regularly.”