By Emmanuel Addeh The Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) has blamed the deteriorating state of the refineries in the country on the failure of institutions, rather than technical challenges or inability of Nigerians engineers to fix the facilities. The National Chairman of the Council in Nigeria, Mr. Joseph Nwakue, who spoke during a pre-event press briefing on the forthcoming 20th edition of the Oloibiri Lecture Series and Energy Forum (OLEF) in Abuja, noted that the failure of the affected institutions to do what is right is responsible for the state of the facilities. The Oloibiri Lecture Series and Energy Forum is an annual event focused on contributing to oil and gas policy development for Nigeria in commemoration of the first oil well drilled in Nigeria by Shell Darcy at Oloibiri, Bayelsa State in 1956. The annual lecture series attracts participation from the government, regulatory agencies, captains of industry, practitioners at all levels, as well as other key stakeholders from around Africa. The 2020 lecture series will discuss the “Asset Acquisitions and Divestments in the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry: Status, Challenges and the Way Forward”. Nwakue argued that as far as government continues to be a major player in the country’s downstream sector, investment will continue to be low, stressing that the reasoning that Nigeria’s refineries were too old to work was faulty. “The problem with the fixing of refineries is not technical, but institutional. Running refineries is not rocket science. Refineries are run everywhere in the world. I worked in a company in a prior career that had a refinery that was built in 1932. That refinery is still running. “That we can’t run our own has more to do with institutional challenges than technical challenges. You can see that private refineries are coming and they will be run efficiently. It’s not that Nigerians cannot run refineries. It’s a deeper issue. The failure of the state to do what needs to be done. “If they can’t run NEPA and they can’t run any other thing, is it refineries that they will run. There’s no reason to expect that things will change. But the move towards private sector refining is the answer. And we have shown that where things have moved away from government, they work. we had NITEL in this country. “Where is NITEL today, but we all have phones and we can talk. So, if you had asked 15 years ago if telephones can work in Nigeria, someone will say no. So, yes refineries can work, but it’s not because refining is rocket science. It’s just because we can’t put our acts together as a nation,” he said. On the growing divestment of the multinationals from the downstream sector, he said the area remains closed to competition because of the interest of state actors. “It’s difficult to compete against a state-run entity. Why would you create a situation where NNPC is the major supplier in the market and expect those entities to exist and compete with NNPC? It doesn’t work that way. “So, what they are doing now is to partner with them, not to compete. No sensible investor competes against a state-owned entity because you can’t win because the state entity has all the power of the state behind them and you are struggling. That’s what is happening in the downstream. What they are saying is that we can’t beat them, so we join them.” He maintained that it was not because of lack of confidence in the sector, noting that once the downstream is open to competition, investors will come in. “Imagine if we wake up today and say NNPC is no longer playing that dominant role. They will all come back because the downstream remains a viable business. It’s institutional and has to do with market structure. “Open the sector to private participation, you will see a lot of people playing in that space. So, it has to do with the fact that government has basically become a stumbling block that is chasing those investors away” he noted. He maintained that though the sale of assets by the government was in the right direction, the timing has to be right. “As oil price tumbles now, they are going to undersell the assets at a market value. It’s hard to get the timing and the policy thrust right. Aligning the two is always a challenge,” he noted. He said that intent of the upcoming programme was to pick specific issues and provide solutions to them, adding that the series was borne out of the need to engage and try to fashion out solutions to problems in the industry.