Tobi Soniyi Following the outbreak of COVID-19, the Nigerian Feminist Forum (NFF) has called on the federal and state governments to continue to uphold fundamental human rights as they put measures in place to contain coronavirus. NFF, in a statement issued by its spokesperson, Mrs Blessing Duru, commended the federal government for taking proactive measures, including closure of schools and religious gatherings above 50 persons, to contain the virus. However, the group called on governments to ensure a gender-transformative response.
The statement said: “We know epidemics affect girls, women, boys and men differently and that they magnify existing inequalities, including on age, class, disability, gender and income lines. “Given this, and in line with ActionAid Nigeria’s Women Voice and Leadership Nigeria (WVL) to ensure that women are protected especially in times like this, we demand that response to COVID19 should be in line with human rights.” According to the group, even though the pandemic poses threats to people in Nigeria, there is a risk of rapid erosion of human rights, including those of women and girls, in the name of curtailing the virus.
The NFF therefore called on the government to ensure all measures were in line with Chapter 4 of the Nigerian Constitution, which made provisions for fundamental human rights. It called on governments to make provision for effective and dignified healthcare for the people and to pay attention to the needs of people with certain conditions and the elderly who are most likely to die from the virus.
It noted that people in Nigeria, particularly those who experienced poverty, those living in rural areas and those with disabilities, already struggle to access proper healthcare. The NFF, consequently called on “governments to expand access for those currently marginalized from healthcare and most vulnerable to the virus; ensure isolation centres are clean, with functional toilets and regular electricity supply, and compliant with the Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities (Prohibition) Act 2018; provide guidance on public health measures, the need for health workers to be compassionate in relating to patients, and ways to mitigate mental health impacts; immediately release funds.” The group noted thatwhile COVID19 remained a serious threat to public health, other critical healthcare needs and risk were not being met. The statement read: “The NFF calls on the government to ensure focus on COVID19 does not lead to diversion of resources away from other areas such as efforts to reduce maternal mortality or child immunization. “The government response should recognize that women will constitute the majority of primary care givers for family members as well as in professional capacities as health-workers, social workers. At the same time, they will face increased burden to provide for the family particularly if family members fall ill or lose jobs while undergoing economic hardship linked to the pandemic. “The NFF calls on the government to take steps to stabilize prices and counter inflation in the face of potential panic-buying; assist health and social care workers with childcare; while ensuring people of all genders receive some protection from the economic impacts of the pandemic.” NFF also appealed to everyone to exercise high levels of hygiene at this time and comply with public health measures.