By Chuks Okocha The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday called on the President Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government to exhibit all sense of transparency in the management of the N1.1trillion intervention fund in this era of the COVID-19 pandemic. The party said that it will hold the federal government responsible for the devaluation of the Naira due to its carelessness and ineptitude as well as corrupt tendencies. The party said that it is worried over the allegation of corruption in handling of the N1.1 trillion set aside to cushion the effect of COVID-19 on the economy, saying, “Our party demands ultimate transparency. “The federal government should come clean on the source of the intervention, the specific intervention projects where the fund will apply, the level of involvement of other tiers of government and private stakeholders, as well as the mode of disbursements and monitoring”. “The PDP demands that the COVID-19 interventions be allocated to the three tiers of government for effective delivery and monitoring. Addressing a press conference yesterday at the PDP national secretariat, the National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan said, “our party, the PDP holds the Buhari’s administration responsible for the devaluation of the naira due to its failures. “President Buhari should immediately end all tactless economic policies, accept failure, seek help and get more competent hands to work on the economy, develop strategies to strengthen the naira as well as paddle our nation out of the current economic quandary”.. He said that the federal government should end its exclusionist policies and allow competent Nigerians, who are now being engaged by other countries, to help out. According to Ologbondiyan, the Buhari-led APC administration should immediately cut down the size of its over-bloated government and plug waste by clipping the luxury expenditure of the Presidency, cabinet ministers and other executive appointees while channeling billions of naira to be saved to national economy. The spokesman of PDP further said that the Buhari-led administration should also shelve every plan of increasing the already excruciating taxes including the Value Added Tax (VAT) which it increased from five per cent to 7.5 per cent, with an attendant high costs on essential goods and services. According to PDP, “The federal government, in its plans to review the 2020 budget, should not touch items that have direct bearings on the welfare of Nigerians but immediately cut all over-bloated executive votes as well as expunge paddings and fraudulently duplicated items, which our party initially pointed out in the budget.