For countless Nigerians, the city and State of Lagos is the crest of metropolitan beauty, integrating the best finest webs of trade and commerce with a basket offering of cultures diverse and distinguished. Since the city grew to this height and status, it has gained the respect and adulation of its sister cities and become the standard in many respects: transportation networks, educational institutions, industry and corporate growth and development. It takes a man to maintain and build on this status quo; if Governor Sanwo-Olu is not that man, men have passed into oblivion. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu was sworn in as the Executive Governor of Lagos State in the May of 2019. It is almost a year now since that day in May, but Sanwo-Olu has rocked everywhere and rocked them good. It became evident to onlookers and the good people of Lagos State that Governor Sanwo-Olu was not going to be your average State figurehead when he discontinued the operations of motorcycles and tricycles (KEKE-NAPEP). To say that that action caused a row is to make a molehill of mountains; countless individuals lamented the suspension of these transport elements for quite a while, until most of them saw reason and realised that Sanwo-Olu’s intention was to cripple the gait of insecurity from its apparent roots and guarantee a safe environment for work and rest and play. Since the ‘Keke’ revolution, Governor Sanwo-Olu has nurtured grassroots operations with the reconstruction and maintenance of road networks, the simplification of small-scale business advancement, and a thousand and one other schemes to help promote business and commerce and livelihood at the most basic level.
The ups-and-ups of high society have also not been left out, with the new Lagos being a far more tolerable, accommodating and enjoyable locale than it was in recent years. Even emergencies have been dealt with under the management of Sanwo-Olu with professional skill and artifice. The recent Abule Ado explosion attests to the commendable diligence of Governor Sanwo-Olu. It was he who immediately launched a N2 billion relief fund for the explosion victims; it was he who flew on fast wings to show pictures of the tragedy to President Mohammadu Buhari.
This is Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Atlas of Lagos, who bears the aspirations of his people on a brawny heart, and their weaknesses and insecurities on an understanding brow.