By Nume Ekeghe Access Bank Plc has commenced the 12th season of its DiamondXtra promo. The bank intends to reward about 5,074 customers with prize of over N1 billion. Also, the Executive Director, Retail Banking, Access Bank, Victor Etuokwu, said the bank was targeting to increasing its customer base from 41 million to 100 million by year 2022. Speaking during the launch of the promo in Lagos, at the weekend, Etuokwu, said the bank has also added new draws to reward women and had increased the numbers of winners across all its winning criteria. Etuokwu said: “This year will be wonderful for our Access Bank customers especially the ones who have a Diamondxtra savings account. We will be rewarding 5,074 customers with about N1 billion and about 21 customers. “We will have over 63 winners for rent for a year category, three people winning salary for life and we will introduce a free health insurance scheme that will cover the customer, spouse or husband and three children. “We will have the same number of people winning N1 million as regards cash prizes like we had today. We also have a lot of loyalty schemes, we will introduce 9 winners (women) who will be winning N300,000 each and we will be doing draws every month for the rest of this year and one of them will win a shopping allowance of N100,000. This year, we are introducing senior citizens, about nine of them will be winning N500,000 each and one of them will get a N100,000 a month.” According to him, “We are looking at bringing in up to 100 million accounts between now and 2022 as we are currently at 41 million accounts.
“So, we are targeting Nigerians as we want every household in Nigeria to have a Diamondxtra account.” Also speaking, the Head, Products Insights and Capabilities, Access Bank, Robert Giles, revealed that since the inception of the reward scheme, the bank has rewarded 22,000 customers with prizes of over N5.7 billion in prize, while adding that Access Bank remains committed to impacting the lives of Nigerians. He said: “We will stick to this initiative and this season we have made it bigger and better for Nigerians to participate and we are excited about it because we are driving financial inclusion as well as savings in every household.”