Ernest Chinwo in Port Harcourt The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has said it is opposed to the bill seeking to ban the importation of electricity generators into the country. This is as the body also stated its opposition to new tariff of electricity under consideration by the Nigerian Electricity Regulation Commission (NERC). The President of MAN, Mr. Mansur Ahmed, stated the position of the manufacturers while briefing journalists in Port Harcourt at the end of the 303rd National Council meeting of the association. He the association would ordinarily support a ban on the importation of goods that could be produced locally, especially if the ban would be carried out in such a way that it would not ground the economy. He noted that the nation’s production of electricity or generators was grossly inadequate to run the economy. “To ban importation when you cannot produce enough electricity or generators will be to kill the economy,” he said. While calling on the Senate not to pass the bill, Ahmed however challenged manufacturers in the power sector to note the nation’s deficiency in that sector and work towards self-sufficiency in power production. On plans to increase electricity tariff, Ahmed said, “MAN noted Disco’s inefficiencies as a major lacuna in the power sector and hereby declares total opposition to the new tariffs of electricity under consideration by the Nigerian Electricity Regulation Commission (NERC).” On federal government’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic, he said MAN appreciated the government on palliative measures to manufacturers to reduce the impact of the disease on business. He expressed hope that the Central Bank would implement the disbursement of the N1.1 trillion intervention fund set aside by the federal government to cushion the effects of the pandemic on the economy. “This is a period we all need to come together, make sacrifices in the interest of the nation,” he said. MAN also called on the federal fovernment to make the ports in Rivers State and other areas operational to decongest the Lagos port and make the ports viable. Ahmed also commended Rivers State Governor, Mr. Nyesom Wike, for ensuring improved security for citizens and businesses.