By John Shiklam in Kaduna The Kaduna state chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has asked its members to stop the unnecessary debate about the number of people allowed in a gathering and support the fight against the dreaded coronavirus.
State chairman of the association, Rev. Joseph Hayab, in a statement on Thursdays frowned on the ongoing debate about the number of people allowed in a gathering, urging that the debate should be ignored and Christians should obey the advice to “Stay at Home.”
He said whether it was a gathering of 10 or 20 or 50 persons, nobody can verify that no one among them is not infected stressing that the best protection is to avoid any form of gathering.
“Our attention has been drawn to unnecessary debates on going among our members and the general public about the fight against Covid-19.
“The confusion is how many people should be in a gathering or meet at a religious function.
“Consequently, we in CAN wish to appeal to all to ignore the debates about numbers and simply obey the advice to ‘Stay at Home.’
“CAN strongly opposes the idea of exposing its faithful or family members to the chance of contacting the deadly virus by holding large gatherings justifying that the gatherings have 10, 20 or 50 persons only.
“How do we verify that no person among the 10, 20 or 50 has the virus and if it happens that one has the virus the possibility is that the virus would spread to others until the populace is affected” he said.
Hayab appealed to all church leaders and those who love God, to guide against the spread of Coronavirus pandemic by closing the doors to their Church buildings for now, “suspending all gatherings until the virus is brought under control.”
He said: “We must sincerely support government efforts in the fight against Corovirus by obeying and following all health instructions and advice.
“Christian leaders must not be seen disobeying government orders. It is time to show the true light of the gospel that we preach.
“Pastors must honestly remind Christians that God accepts and honours prayer, Bible Study and songs observed and offered at home or in our closets.
“Let us learn from the fight people of good conscience all over the world are waging against this virus.
” If the USA, Europe and other developed countries, with good medical facilities, are losing loved ones in record numbers, their travails should teach us in Nigeria to redouble our efforts and ensure that this virus does not spread in our land”.