Things are looking up for Dr. Bashir Yusuf Jamoh, the present Executive Director in charge of Finance and Administration at the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA). According to credible insiders, Dr. Jamoh is set to take up the mantle of leadership (also known as Director-General) at NIMASA following the retirement of Dr. Dakuku Peterside on 10 March 2020, chiefly on appointment by the President no less. For those who aren’t aware, NIMASA is a federal bureau committed to the enthronement of global best practices in the provision of maritime services in Nigeria, through effective Maritime Safety Administration, Maritime Labour Regulation, Marine Pollution Prevention and Control, Search and Rescue, Cabotage enforcement, Shipping Development and Ship Registration, Training and Certification of Seafarers, and Maritime Capacity Development.
The agency has had several Director-Generals in recent times. The most recent of this is Dr. Dakuku Adolphus Peterside who assumed duty as the Director-General/CEO of NIMASA on March 15, 2016 – although the appointment took effect from March the 10th, 2016. Dr. Peterside took over from Zaikede Patrick Akpobolokemi who himself assumed office sometime in June of 2011.
The gist on the waves at the moment is that following Dr. Peterside’s timely retirement, Dr. Bashir Jamoh will be taking over as the new Director-General/CEO of NIMASA. This anticipated appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to be announced within the week, according to folks who possibly dine on that round table. Dr. Bashir Jamoh, although the Executive Director for Finance and Administration at the moment, has already been checkmated as a worthy NIMASA Director-General. Dr. Jamoh has over three decades of public service, professional and technical experience, especially in the maritime sector, and has had the privileged experience of serving in several operations and administrative departments in NIMASA. More so, Dr. Jamoh has an armoury of contemporary and relevant education: a Ph.D. from the University of Port Harcourt, specializing in Logistics and Transport Management; a Master’s degree in Management from Korea Maritime and Ocean University; postgraduate Diploma in Management Sciences from Bayero University Kano; and a Diploma in Accounting from Ahmadu Bello University Zaria.
According to the insiders, President Buhari intends to appoint a DG whose competence and capacity could enhance maritime security, particularly at the key Gulf of Guinea – a gap suited to Dr. Jamoh, according to the sources.