The pristine headquarters of the BUA Group heaved and creaked to the prominence and prestige of two high profile visitors recently. First was billionaire industrialist, Alhaji Aliko Dangote. His visit to the chairman of BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu, doused the groundswell of rumours that the two pre-eminent Kano indigenes and Forbes-rated billionaires don’t see eye to eye. Though it was the first time in a long time that they would be seen together publicly, there was no mistaking the camaraderie and mutual respect they have for each other. Aside from their Kano kinship, BUA Group and Dangote group are leading players in the fast-moving consumer goods and cement sectors. And while Dangote is the richest African and black man in the world, Rabiu is the eighth richest African. They are also two of Africa’s largest philanthropists, donating significant parts of their wealth to various humanitarian causes.
The former, simply dressed in a flowing Babariga, was all smiles and cheers as he was hosted by Rabiu. “It was an honour for me to receive my friend and brother, Alhaji, in my office today. I share his vision and aspirations in transforming and industrializing our beloved country, Nigeria. Thank you so much, Alhaji, for the honour,” stated Rabiu. The BUA Group chairman was still savouring the Dangote visit when another high profile visitor, chairman of Flour Mills Nigeria, John Coumantaros, came calling. Both men, who also lead companies playing actively in the food business, restated their mutual commitment to improving food security in Nigeria. Speaking during the visit, Rabiu said, “I am pleased to receive Chairman Coumantaros here at the BUA headquarters to further discuss our shared commitment and partnership in enhancing food security in Nigeria. Nigeria and indeed, Africa is blessed with enough resources to make her the food basket of the world. We must keep joining hands to make this a reality.” On his part, Coumantaros said that Flour Mills and BUA Group have made the commitment and partnership to enhance food security in Nigeria. Indeed, BUA Group and Flour Mills are two of West Africa’s largest investors in the foods and agribusiness sector. BUA Group, a company that has largely developed over 20 years, having its stake in a wide range of diversified business sectors, consolidated its cement business comprising the publicly listed 2million Mtpa Cement Company of Northern Nigeria Plc (CCNN) and 6 million mtpa Obu Cement Company Plc in October 2019. The consolidation was made in anticipation of enhancing the growth of the cement industry and boosting the Nigerian economy. The group also announced that its newest 3 million metric tonnes cement plant, which it started constructing in 2018 – the $450 million Sokoto Kalambaina II plant, is scheduled for completion in the second half of 2020.
“With the consolidation and addition of the Sokoto Kalambaina II plant, this will bring BUA Cement’s total installed capacity across all its cement holdings to 11 million MTPA,” said Rabiu. He added that this consolidation marks the culmination of the first phase of the BUA mid-term strategic plan for its cement businesses, which currently include four cement plants spread across Obu Cement Company and the Cement Company of Northern Nigeria.
“A new $450million Sokoto Kalambaina II Plant is scheduled to come on stream in the second half of 2020 alongside another 48MW power plant to complement the existing assets and take advantage of a growing cement market in Northern Nigeria and the West African region,” he said.