MOSUNMOLA MALIK Focused and goal-driven Mosunmola Malik has been in the Nollywood industry for over 10 years. This beauty behind and off the cameras is one of Nigeria’s fast rising actresses, with excellence as her watchword. Mosunmola’s admirable character stands her out in the industry. She shares her starting-out experiences, progress and challenges in the industry with Tosin Clegg How the journey into Nollywood started It started about 10 years ago. In 2012, I featured in a movie titled; ‘Married but Living Single’. It’s a day I can never forget in my life. I was so happy that day because I acted with Funke Akindele and Joseph Benjamin. Later on I went to Odunfa Caucus to learn more about acting. To me, acting is an act or practice of representing a character on a stage or in front of camera. Growing up in Lagos Island
I attended Olowogbowo Methodist Primary School, Lagos Island and later on went to Eko Akete Grammar School for my secondary education. After that I went to Interlink Polytechnic in Osun State where I did my OND and HND. I come from a family of six and I’m the last born. My mum is late but my dad and siblings are very much in support of my career. I can say practically that growing up in Lagos Island helped shape the person I am now. Those times were very much my formation years and I’m grateful to my parents, who took time to enrich me with values, ethics and a morally upright life. Growing up in Lagos Island was not by choice. But then, I realised it made me strong. So, I strive to be better and make a difference. That and a lot more, are what helped me to where I am today. Regardless of where it all started, for me, I’m working hard to improve daily and be a better person. So, I take my work seriously and also look forward to other opportunities out there to earn something but most importantly I focus more on my career as an actress and try to shape my life towards the direction of bringing excellence to my craft. Never let your background keep you on the ground
There is a saying that ‘never let your background keep you on the ground’ and I learnt to fight my own battles on my own with my head held up high because I know giving up is not an option. I have to be better than my parents. This was why I ensured I worked my way round the movie industry, looking out for opportunities to be a better interpreter of roles and gradually emerging to a much bigger name in the industry. Best gift as a child
The best gift I received as a child was on my birthday and it was a bicycle from my dad. It came at a time when I was so looking forward to something that would challenge me and bring a new excitement to me. Getting the bicycle was everything and I was indeed overjoyed when I started riding it and showing it off to my friends. I have always wanted to be an actress
Right from secondary school, I have always wanted to be an actress and I decided to join a cultural group in my school. So, there was a day we went for a show and there was this role I played and the audience was impressed and I was told if I venture into acting that I will be a great actress. Since then, my passion for acting became stronger. It was all the motivation I needed and I’m glad it came at the time it did. It was a major propeller and gave me every reason to keep my dreams alive. Much later, I featured in a movie titled, ‘Married But Living Single’ in 2012. Being on set that day remains a day I can never forget in my life. I was so happy that day because I acted with Funke Akindele and Joseph Benjamin. Later on, I went to Odunfa Caucus to learn more about acting. When my dad lost his job, the comfort I had was lost
The most difficult thing that ever happened to me was when my dad lost his job. Things became really difficult because the comfort I had was lost. So, I had to start coping with the new phase of life without much finance from my dad but Alhamdulillah, everything was restored much more later. It was a leap of joy in the house for us all back then but I would say the grace of the Almighty Allah did stand for us and made itself available. I’m on a new path to doing so much more for myself
My biggest mistake was not traveling out of the country when I had the opportunity. Well, travelling out would have given me more opportunities to explore and so much more but as I passed on that time; I can never forget; I guess things would have been a lot different but regardless, I’m on a new path to doing so much more for myself and my career. I want to be able to live my life right
My biggest fear in life will be leaving this world without making a positive impact and living a life not worth emulating. That would be a major failure on my own path if I don’t at least make this happen. This is why everyday, I’m always up and about with my career, trying to make a difference and not submit to the pressures here and there. I want to be able to live my life right and build my career correctly as well, regardless of how long it takes. I know one day, I would be able to confidently share my success story with everyone. The sky is my starting point
I’m looking forward to traveling all over the world. For me it has started already and I’m not stopping anytime soon. The sky is my own starting point and I don’t know about others but I’m thankful for the opportunities so far and a lot more to come, knowing full well that with Allah on my side, everything will fall in place and I would attain heights of successes that would blow my own mind as well. I fight my battles with prayers
Life has taught me never to depend on anyone and it’s just the bitter truth; you can take it or leave it. Telling your problem to someone who has no solution is like washing your dirty cloth in public because the person will use your story as an example or broadcast it to the wrong people. I fight my battles with prayers and I only look up to Almighty Allah. Every role I get featured in I try to bring my character alive
Acting in my own word is an act or practice of representing a character and that can be on a stage or in front of camera. So every role I get featured in I try to bring my character alive by playing the role as though I’m the person taking notes of the expected character, personality, mindset and everything else that encompasses that character. My big break
I consider the film, ‘Aye Onilara’ as my big break. It was written and produced by Taiwo Opeyemi Ibrahim in 2016 and directed by Okiki Afolayan. It was a movie that gave me the opportunity to express myself and give a character the essence it deserves. I’m always thankful for the chance and that more or less opened more doors of opportunities for me. Joke Silva is my mentor
Joke Silva is my mentor. She lacks any form of negativity or bad press and has proven herself overtime as a woman of virtue, high standard and disciple even from her roles on Project Fame and other things she has worked on. And her spoken English is top notch and I wish to be speaking like her though, with her excellence composition of words, dictions and more. I love the fact that she has been able to achieve a balance between her marriage to a prominent actor, Olu Jacobs and acting effectively with years of excellence in records. Sex for role challenges
My challenges have been largely sex for role and it’s really been crazy. Sex for role in Nollywood is real and most production managers, directors and producers are into it. So it is making young female talents not to have opportunity to express their creativity without sexual harassment. Most young actresses are scared to speak up because of the fear of being victimised. Most young actresses are scared to speak up because of the fear of gang up against. I have experienced a few situations where a director or producer told me he can’t give me scripts except I have sex with him. This existing selfish desire in the industry is saddening and degrading. By having an effective policy and procedures, this form of abuse will be prevented, thereby giving more confidence to the younger generation. I always try to connect
So far I have achieved things money can’t buy. I enjoy networking a lot and each time I go to locations and events, I try to connect and get along with people as much as possible. I’m building a wide range of friendship with filmmakers that would later yield something great, like being called for films, projects and more. Few years from now, I see myself as a great actress, playing lead roles and making waves in the industry. Projects in the pipeline
I’m working on a project and it’s going to be out soon. Just watch out for this space. For me, in the next five years, I see myself becoming a true expert and master of my roles and making waves in the industry and travelling all over the world.