LOC: Bid still open for terrestrial broadcast The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, who is in Edo State, ahead of the National Sports Festival (NSF) to ascertain the level of preparations for the national event, has praised the state government for the turn around in its facilities within a few months. He added that Edo has raised the bar high for hosting of sporting events in Nigeria. The minister said this Friday while speaking with journalists after he undertook an inspection of the hostel accommodation for provided for athletes coming for Edo 2020 in Benin City. “We started the inspection from the stadium. Whhen I came the last time it was just rafters for the gym, we have seen that everything is almost set. By Monday (today) that place will be fully ready. “We have seen the hard court, Ogbe hard court is back. We have also seen the main-bowl and the tracks. I think we couldn’t ask for more,” observed the minister in appreciation of the quality of the facilities Edo State has provided to host the 20th edition of the National Sports Festival in Benin. Speaking on the level of preparedness to mitigate the spread of the Coronavirus also known as Covid-19, the Minister said, “I think beyond the bricks-and-mortar, beyond the tracks, the buildings, the hostels, the other thing they’ve done so well is containing the spread of the virus. The Minister expressed hope that the competition would throw up talents for the country for future sports events. Meanwhile, the Marketing Sub-committee has said that broadcast signals are still available for interested television stations for fee. SuperSport Nigeria was named the host broadcaster for the festival and will beam live to millions of Nigerians and other sports lovers across the African continent on pay television but Mike Itemuagbor, Chairman of the Marketing Sub-committee stressed that signals for terrestrial broadcasting of the event are still available on first come, first served basis. “This is to let television stations in Nigeria know that signals for the broadcast of the Edo 2020 National Sports Festival on terrestrial television are available. “Interested television stations should contact the Marketing Sub-committee for discussion. We are aware they pay to air international sports events. This is the international standard and Nigeria cannot pretend to be different when it comes to broadcasting and media rights for events organised in Nigeria by Nigerians,” said Itemuagbor. who wants history to remember Edo State and organisers of the 20th National Sports Festival for redefining everything about sports marketing, broadcasting and media rights. “We want to use the Edo 2020 National Sports Festival to not only redefine the technical and administrative organisation of such a multi-sports event, but also want to redefine broadcasting and media rights for the biggest sporting event in Nigeria,” he added.