Gboyega Akinsanmi A former Ogun State Governor, Chief Olusegun Osoba thursday disclosed that he never developed any symptoms of COVID-19. Osoba, however, clarified that he had decided to observe self-isolation in line with the directive of the Lagos State Government, contrary to reports that the guests of the Nigerian High Commissioner in the United Kingdom, Justice George Oguntade at his 80th birthday might have contacted the infection. He made the clarification in telephone conversation with THISDAY last night, saying linking the pandemic to Oguntade’s 80th anniversary was not only unfair, but a deliberate attempt to blackmail the respected legal icon. There were reports that Osoba was among eminent Nigerians, who attended the 80th birthday of the retired jurist held in the United Kingdom recently. The report also claimed that those who attended Oguntade’s birthday had gone into self-isolation for fear that they might have contracted the dreaded viral infection. The report had claimed that two unidentified persons were alleged to have died of the infection after attending the party. Responding to the reports yesterday, Osoba lamented that there was a lot of blackmail and alarm going on the internet that one Rotimi Adigun had died of avirus and that those who attended the anniversary should submit themselves for test. Osoba, who was also a guest at Oguntade’s birthday said: “I want to clear the air that I, after attending the party, have not developed any sign of illness or symptoms of the pandemic.” Osoba noted that nobody has told Nigerians that Adigun died of virus, as there was no autopsy to prove such claim. He said: “I only decided to put myself in self-isolation in obedience to the directives of Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu that whosoever returned from overseas trip should stay isolated for 14 days. It was not that I developed any symptoms. “I have contacted almost all those personalities who attended the party, including Justice Oguntade, none of them have reported showing any symptoms of the disease. I don’t know where such malicious news emanated,” the former governor said.