Emmanuel Addeh The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) said yesterday that it was restricting customers to its social media platforms, following the increasing cases of Coronavirus in the country. Managing Director of the company, Mr. Ernest Mupwaya, said in a statement in Abuja that the events of the past few weeks had made it clear that the world is facing an unprecedented challenge with the COVID-19 pandemic. “We at AEDC are deeply concerned and want to do all we can to help keep our country, families, employees, customers and communities safe and healthy. “On behalf of AEDC, I’d like to assure you that we are taking concerted steps to manage the situation at hand. “In doing this, AEDC is closely monitoring the health guidelines of the Federal Government of Nigeria through the Federal Ministry of Health and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on the latest developments and guidance on COVID-19. “AEDC will adhere strictly to all recommendations of the NCDC on health and safety protocols as they are provided from time to time. “In strict compliance with the guidelines, the following protocols have been adopted by AEDC to keep a safe social distance and reduce the number and frequency of one-on-one meetings with effect from Wednesday, 18th March, 2020,” he said. The company which covers Abuja, Niger, Kogi and Nassarawa, added that contact channels for fault reporting or any form of complaints are forthwith temporarily restricted to AEDC 24-hrs contact centres. “Customers are encouraged to contact AEDC exclusively through our Customer Service Contacts as opposed to walking-in. “As usual, all complaints received through any of the aforementioned channels will be given utmost attention. Customers are, therefore, requested to please provide sufficient information such as contract/meter number, phone number(s), physical address with identifiable landmark (s) for ease of location. “Customers who complain by telephone calls, social media or through any of the online channels will be given a tracking number through which their complaints will be tracked until fully resolved. “Meter applicants are advised to download the application form from our website, print it out and complete same. Upon completion, applicants are to scan the form and send to us through our email address” the distribution company said. It noted that hand-held infrared thermometers to monitor the body temperature of staff and visitors before entering into AEDC offices have been provided and in use. “Alcohol-based hand sanitisers and facilities for hand washing have also been provided; “Consequently, there shall be compulsory use of hand sanitisers and/or hand washing under running water before entering into AEDC Offices. Everyone is advised to wash his/her hands with soap under running water for at least 20 seconds. “While we regret any inconvenience this may cause our customers, visitors and vendors, we urge you to kindly cooperate with us as we join hands with the global community to fight the COVID-19 pandemic” AEDC said.