By Hammed Shittu Former Chairman of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) Anti-corruption Committee, Mallam Yusuf Olaolu Ali (SAN), at the weekend canvassed for bottom-top approach to the war against corruption in order to nip the menace in the bud in the country. Speaking with journalists in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, on the sideline of his annual ‘Ghalib Anti-corruption Walk-to- Live” exercise, the senior lawyer said the current approach of top-bottom being used by the various anti-corruption agencies in the country would not yield the desired positive result. He said: “There is urgent need to embark on a mass movement on the war against corruption that will encompass bottom-top system to reduce corruption index in the country. “Also, the war against corruption message must involve all and sundry in order to get to the door steps of the rural populace irrespective of the positions everyone find themselves in the country.” The legal luminary opined that the way the war against corruption is being fought by the anti-corruption agencies need to be reviewed, noting that “the war is only targeted at the influence people but leave out those at the lowest ebb of the society.” He explained that “if those at the lowest ebb of the society are not checked, this set of people may also grow into a full-blown corrupt people, thereby increasing the corrupt activities in the society.” On the annual Ghalib anti-corruption exercise, the senior lawyer said the programme was put in place few years ago to address the current situation in the country and to bring people of various professional groups together to make them physically alright through routine exercise. According to him, the the country is currently facing insecurity, adding that “everyone in the country must be security conscious and learn to be ones brother’s keeper in terms of reporting strange occurrence in the area one lives.” The legal expert, who called on the government to be more committed to the war against insecurity in the country, said: “No investment and socio-economic development can take place in an insecure country.” Ali, therefore, called on the people of Nigeria to continue to support the government in the task of protecting life and property of the citizenry.