*Nigeria close camp in Lagos The Africa Cricket Association (ACA) announced yesterday that the scheduled African T-20 Championship in Nairobi Kenya from March 20, 2020has been postponed on the account of rising global health concerns around Coronavirus. In a press statement jointly signed by the body’s Chief Executive, Cassim Suliman and Chairperson, Jackie Janmohamed, ACA said that “With reference with the above mentioned subjects please be advised (that) with in-depth communications with local and international authorities as well as to ensure safety of all concerned both domestically and internationally we regret to advise the participation members who are competing in the ACA T20 Africa Cup Kenya 2020 has been postponed until further notice. “The ACA respects the decision of the Government of Kenya and supports all efforts that safeguard the country against the possible entry of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). This decision has been taken by the ACA Board as well as in consultation with all the Health Ministries of the various countries.” Following the development, the Nigeria Cricket Federation has also ended the camping for the country’s team for the event. The senior national Team Yellow-Green, were camped in Lagos to prepare for the event. The statement also said that the Kenyan government has banned meetings and conferences that are international in nature and as well asked Kenyans to avoid gathering with more than 15 people in attendance. All which are supposed to be the character of the ACA T-20 event. “The government has, with immediate effect banned all meetings, conferences and events of international nature in Kenya
The government has issued a travel advisory to all Kenyans to avoid non-essential travel to high risk countries for conferences/meetings or events where more than 15 people would be gathering. “The Ministry of Health is engaging Kenyans citizens, sector by sector, in the management of both personal and public hygiene,” the statement warned. In a reaction to the development, General Manager of the Nigerian cricket federation, Emeka Igwilo said that the continental cricket had done well and that Nigeria has complied by disbanding the training camp already opened in Lagos. “ As an ACA member federation, I believe the postponement will douse some tension around the event especially as the outbreak around the Coronavirus is on the increase of late. We have also informed our team presently camped in Lagos of the development and the camp has been closed,” he said. The senior national team, Yellow Green, has been in camp in Lagos since February 29, 2020, and was supposed to proceed on training tour of Zimbabwe for ten days starting from yesterday and have touched down in Nairobi (Kenya) on March 20for the African T-20 Championship. “A lot of sporting events have taken the hit as more people and countries are avoiding public gathering as a way to curb the outbreak and spread of the virus. I believe, the postponement is in the interest of all,” Igwilo added. The eight-nation championship was supposed to feature Nigeria, Uganda, Cameroon, Ghana, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, and host Kenya. The ACA states that it will keep its members updated on future developments around the event.