 After such a concentration on the clinical side of infertility, this week, we will take a look at Nutrition and its vital role in fertility. Maintaining a healthy diet is essential at every point in a person’s life but it is especially important and recommended for all couple trying for conception, via natural process or Assisted Reproductive Techniques such as IVF. According to the Center of Disease Control (CDC), approximately 1 in 10 women will experience infertility. While there is no such thing as magical fertility diet, our nutrition plays a vital role to the body’s functions, fertility and general wellbeing. Adequate nutrition will promote optimum weight, hormonal balance which eventually enhances spontaneous ovulation for the female and quality sperm production for the male. Numerous studies have shown that specific changes to diet can improve fertility, prevent recurrent miscarriages, support a healthy pregnancy and enhance delivery of a live healthy baby. WHAT IS FERTILITY DIET? A fertility diet contains natural balanced food products that are known to support your body in its reproductive functions. It includes foods which are dense in some specific nutrients needed for hormonal production/ function and balance, fetalhealth development, egg / sperm health, blood health and much more. It is a diet that is designed to help your body to balance fertility issues that may exist, build up nutrition stores and provide all of the building blocks for a healthy child. WHY EAT A NATURAL FERTILITY DIET? DO YOU KNOW: ❖ The foods you eat today impact the health of your sperm and eggs 90 days from the day eaten? ❖ Hormones build themselves from the ingredient you provide through your diet? ❖ There are specific nutrients that are needed by the young fetus (growing baby in the womb) before you can even detect pregnancy and deficiency of these nutrients can cause serious birth defects? ❖ The number one treatment for balancing Poly Cystic Ovarian Syndrome (PCOS) and getting pregnant despite PCOS is majorly diet? ❖ One major cause of infertility is anovulation (lack of ovulation) and that it can often be corrected by changes in our diet? . THE BENEFITS OF EATING RIGHT FOR EFRTILITY ❖ Provides antioxidants, vitamins and minerals which help to protect eggs and sperm health from the damage caused by free radicals. ❖ Helps the body maintain  hormonal balance by providing the fat necessary for hormonal production and function ❖ Provides the body with the abundance of essential vitamins, minerals, antioxidants necessary for optimal health ❖ May decrease the chances of miscarriage resulting from insulin resistance and damage from free radicals to the eggs or sperm and DNA ❖ Support  a healthy reproductive system and helps to build important nutrient store for pregnancy ❖ Promotes energy and vitality  DIETARY INTAKE /FOOD SOURCES TO BOOST FERTILITY ❖ Water Drink lots of clean water daily. Approximately 1.5-3 Liters recommended Avoid fizzy, sugary drinks. ❖ Antioxidants, Minerals and Vitamins  Food sources: Sea foods from clean/fresh water sources and organic meat. Food sources: liver, cod, shrimp, mushroom, turkey, Brazil nut, tuna fish, salmon fish, sardine fish. Food sources: calf liver, oyster, beef, lamb, pumpkin seeds, yoghurt, green peas, shrimps, turkey Food sources: Small amount is obtained from potatoes, spinach and lean red meat.  Food sources: Mushrooms, eggs, avocados, oily fish,beef, chicken, turkey, lean pork, cheese, and sweetpotatoes. Food sources: Banana, tuna fish, salmon fish, liver, spinach, cabbage, garlic, broccoli, peppers, turkey, cod, mustard greens. Food sources: Liver, lentils, pinto beans, spinach, kidney beans, black beans, green leafy vegetable Food sources: Fish, meat, egg, milk, liver, sardines, tuna, fortified cereals, clams. …………………………………….…………………………………………………..TO BE CONTINUED NEXT WEEK