Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi The Assets Recovery Committee set up by the Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed has indicted the state’s immediate past governor, Alhaji Mohammed Abubakar and his predecessor, Alhaji Isa Yuguda of corruption allegations and conversion of government properties. Consequently, the committee has asked the former governors and their associates to refund over N1 trillion allegedly looted from the coffers while they were in office. A member of the committee, Mr. Lawal Ibrahim disclosed this yesterday at a session with journalists, noting that several assets belonging to the state were discovered in Abubakar’s residence. As the committee was rounding up its activities, Ibrahim disclosed that the committee received a tip from a whistle blower that items were being carted away and transferred outside the state by the family of Abubakar. He added that the committee visited Abubakar’s residence at Fadaman Mada and was able to recover only few items like 105 Pasta making machines, 10 sewing machines, carton of surgical hand gloves and several office furniture’s belonging to the Bauchi Government. He explained that the committee “has earlier recovered four tractors, a luxury bus and a house located opposite Government House, adjacent Wikki Hotel belonging to the state government which Abubakar allegedly sold to himself. He said the committee traced a lot of properties and resources frittered away by the two former governors and their associates.
Ibrahim, who said the committee might submit its report any moment from now, expressed optimism that if the recommendations of the committee “are implemented, the two former governors and their associates will refund over one trillion naira to the state government.” When asked about the suit filed by the two former governors challenging the activities of the committee, Ibrahim said “Both Abubakar and Yuguda took the committee before Federal High Courts in Abuja and Bauchi State High Court. But the committee is responding adequately to the suits and will submit its report without hitches by God’s grace.” Ibrahim explained that the committee traced over 16 different pieces of land, buildings and properties at different locations in Kaduna State with certificate of occupancy belonging to the Bauchi government. The committee also investigated various contracts awarded by the two previous administrations like the purchase of 500 tractors of which 40 were delivered , looting of ecological funds, Paris Club refunds and various loans. The committee said many other details and findings would be made public when the committee submits its report.
Efforts to Speak to the two former commissioners of Information during Mallam Isa Yuguda and MA Abubakar’s administrations, Salisu Ahmad Barau and Umar Sade during were not fruitful.
While Sade didn’t pick his calls and did not reply to text message sent to him, Barau’s phone number was switched off.