By Adibe Emenyonu Retirees of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCS), have petitioned President Muhammadu Buhari and the Senate President, Muhammed Lawan to remove the administration of the pension of the retirees of the NCS from the National Pension Commission (PENCOM). The pensioners in a petition signed by it’s Chairman, Mr. Abraham Osaghae, and made available to journalists at the weekend in Benin City, capital of Edo State, lamented that life has become unbearable for the paramilitary ex-service men since the administration of their pension were transferred to PENCOM. Osaghae noted that the paramilitary service men worked under severe, hazardous and horrendous condition where there was no escape route when faced with danger. He said: “They at most time pay with their lives. The police are faced with the terrorists, immigration with aliens, custom with smugglers and the correctional staffs are faced with dangerous and unwanted criminals whom they are locked up with.” Osaghae lamented the absurdity of using the retirees’ gratuities to pay for their pension even when the Pension Act did not say so. He noted that the immediate past Inspector General of Police, Mr. Ibrahim Idris, canvassed for the removal of the paramilitary from PENCOM but did not realise it. He said that having served the nation so much with their energy and time, it would be most unfair to further punish the ex-paramilitary service men with hardship and poverty. Osaghae argued: “The most important thing now is that if all paramilitary personnel cannot be removed from the PENCOM and returned to the old scheme as the military has done, then let those who have served for twenty years and above as at 2004 be pulled out. “Now is the time for Mr. President and the National Assembly to do the needful for the paramilitary ex-service men who laid down their lives for the service to the country and yet their gratuities were seized for a meager pension stipend. “We appeal to you, Mr. President and our distinguished and honourable members of the National Assembly to please be bold to take a courageous step that will set us free from this bondage called PENCOM. We sincerely believe that posterity will sure not forgets you if you can do this for us.”