Eromosele Abiodun Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited, the flagship company of SIFAX Group and concessionaire of Terminal C, Tin Can Island Port, Apapa, Lagos, has announced the addition of a new client to its growing clientele list. The company in a statement said the latest addition is Hapag Lloyd AG Limited, a German international shipping and container transportation company, which is the world’s fifth largest container carrier in terms of vessel capacity.
The shipping line, it added, made its maiden call at the terminal recently with one of its largest vessel, Navious Azure, a container ship built in 2007 with gross tonnage of 39,906 tonnes and length overall of 260.5m. While welcoming the vessel’s crew to the terminal, Managing Director, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited, Mr. John Jenkins, expressed the company’s delight at the vessel’s maiden call, adding that the development is a testimony of the terminal’s readiness to provide cutting-edge port terminal services to more clients. He said: “We are excited to have this ship berth at our terminal today. We are delighted that Hapag Lloyd, which is one the world’s largest ocean shipping fleet owners, prefer our terminal for their operations and the shipping line will call frequently at this terminal. “This business relationship with Hapag Lloyd is one of several partnerships we have been working on in the past few months. This new wave of patronage is a result of the massive investment we have made both in modern equipment, quality personnel and improved processes over the years. All these have translated in better service delivery, which is what an average client wants.” Responding on behalf of the vessel’s crew members, Captain John Trafiero, who was overwhelmed by the hospitality and excellent service provided by the company, expressed his joy at berthing at one of Africa’s prime ports. “This is a resounding welcome we have received here today and it would stick in our memories wherever we sail to. Though we are sailing back very soon, my crew and I cannot wait to be back here again,”he said.