Perhaps his pastime, Senator Dino Melaiye may have finally found his true calling, with his appearance in the film titled Silent Prejudice, writes Ferdinand Ekechukwu The flamboyant politician and former lawmaker from Kogi State, Senator Dino Melaye is making his third movie appearance in season 2 of the movie series, Silent Prejudice. He joined former minister of aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode and his beauty queen and actress wife, Precious, on the set of the new movie which is used for social reengineering. Melaye took to social media days back to make the announcement which got mixed reactions from his followers, some of whom were surprised following his post. “On set…Silent Prejudice,” he captioned a picture post on his Instagram page. The television series, which exposes the evils associated with the Osu caste system in the Southeastern part of Nigeria, is currently being shot at various locations in Abuja. The production is reported to have the endorsement of the Nigerian Human Rights Commission, who’s Executive Secretary, Tony Ojukwu, also makes an appearance. Season 1 is already being aired on AIT on Wednesdays at 9.00 pm. Other distinguished personalities on the set of the series include businessman Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, and former governor, Chukwuemeka Ezeife. Produced by Chris Oge Kalu, the 13-episode series also features Nollywood veterans such as Clems Ohameze, Amaechi Muonago, Monalisa Chinda, Chuks Chyke, Vitalis Ndubuisi, Steve Eboh, and Ofiafuluagu Mbaka. Also starring in the series is another veteran, Larry Koldsweat, Obi Idejimba, and T.T. Temple. Melaye’s fans are eager to see the movie screened. Melaye is popular in the social space being not one to shy away from airing his views on topical issues as often seen in the polity. In a recent interview during the premiere of ‘Lemonade’, a movie he also featured in, Melaye was metaphorical, describing “entertainment as a weapon.” According to him, “the entertainment industry is one of the strongest weapons we can use in ameliorating our problems in this country. We must have a nation where leaders must be responsible, where followers must ask questions, where every Nigerian must decide to either walk in the light of creative altruism or perish in the darkness of destructive selfishness”. Melaye said he only accepts movie roles that resonate with his ideals and aim at correcting societal ills or encourage leaders to do the right thing, citing his character in the movie as a politician who stood for a just and egalitarian society. He added: “That in any way through music, through movies, to help build a better society. I will be willing to participate and I am doing this pro bono.” Often around entertainment circles chitchatting with comedians and actors during shows, he once sang at AY live show in Abuja. Melaye’s love affair with entertainment dates back to 2013 when he trended online as a result of a baby paternity allegation with Yoruba actress, Bisi Ibidapo-Obe. Percieved as controversial, senator Melaye made his debut as the first serving Nigerian lawmaker to venture into acting when he first appeared in a music video by Afro trap star, Kach, titled Dino, in 2017. He made his acting debut in the TV series, ‘Equity Unbound’ earlier last year, featuring as a lead actor. He is fond of singing and dancing to debase his perceived ‘political enemies.’ Remember his ‘Kogi Koya…Kogi ko Bello’ song against Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State…Remember his hit song ‘Ajeku Iya’ which went viral in 2018.