Kayode Fasua in Abeokuta In furtherance to its effort at curtailing the spread of COVID-19, the Ogun State Government yesterday lowered the number of those who may gather in one place at a time from 50 to 20. The latest action therefore implies that no church or mosque can congregate with more than 20 persons at a time, and that those attending burial, wedding or sundry ceremonies cannot exceed 20 persons. Announcing the latest development in a statement Monday, the Chief Press Secretary to the state Governor, Dapo Abiodun, Mr. Kunle Somorin, said: “The decisions were taken after the daily review of developments at a meeting chaired by the governor.” He said apart from that, the state government had also resolved that all heads of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) as well as the local governments are to draw up rosters that would ensure that no more than 20 percent of their workforce across all cadres work daily, “thus ensuring that most staff come to work once a week.” Health workers, fire service and Ogun State Emergency Management Authority (OGSEMA) are exempted from this arrangement. Also, all teachers in public primary and secondary schools are to proceed on their vacation immediately. “All government offices, irrespective of where they are, are to maintain social distancing, provide hand sanitizers and hand washing facilities among other hygiene measures, at all times,” the statement added. However, the state government has also extended the frontiers of the restriction orders to include a ban on visits to all government offices, stating that they are put on hold until further notice. “Also, banks, telecommunications and other similar service providers that offer services in hubs and or bays are required to ensure that no more than 20 clients are in their service areas at a time. “Social distancing must be maintained between those who will be on the queue or waiting halls by at least five feet between clients. Those outside the halls should maintain similar standards of social distancing. “Henceforth, any group of more than 20 persons that congregate in the name of any meeting-spiritual or secular-shall be visited with the full wrath of the law. The state Task Force has been mandated to ensure full and total compliance,” the state government warned in the statement.