By Hammed Shittu Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, yesterday rallied support for the state campaign to keep COVID-19 out of the state. The governor also announced the donation of 100 percent of his 10 months’ salary from May 29, 2019 to date to his administration efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the state. “Whereas our state has no confirmed case of the coronavirus as at now, we have been taking every step necessary to ensure we keep Kwara State safe. Such measures have included keeping our people at home while we ramp up investments in our capacity to cope with this global health emergency,” AbdulRazaq said in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye. He added: “This time calls for sacrifice from everyone as humanity needs all the help it can get. For this reason, I am hereby donating 100 percent of my monthly salary since May 29, 2019, when I was sworn in, to our efforts to prevent this virus from getting to us; provide palliatives to our people as well as boost our capacity to cope if it ever comes here.” The governor also commended members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for donating half of their monthly salary to the national efforts to fight the virus. According to him, “I single out my brother and sister, Alhaji Lai Mohammed and Senator Gbemisola Saraki, who are both ministers, for their roles in this humanitarian gesture. And on behalf of the people and government of Kwara State, I express our deepest appreciation to Alhaji Abdulsamad Rabiu and Mr. Tony Elumelu for their generous donations to Kwara State. “It is against this background that I appeal to all well-meaning corporate bodies and individuals to emulate these great Nigerians by joining our efforts in Kwara State. Donations can be made to the Kwara State Technical Committee. People may also donate food stuffs to be released to the poor people to further ease our campaign to keep the virus out of the state. “Finally, I have directed the technical committee on COVID-19 to begin distribution of palliatives, including food stuffs, to the people this week even as I call on everyone to stay at home, stay safe and maintain social distancing.”