John Shiklam in Kaduna The Kaduna State Government has banned the operations of motorcycle, taxis and tricycles in the state for failing to satisfy the conditions for social distancing. The ban was announced wednesday by the Deputy Governor of the Kaduna State, Dr. Hadiza Balarabe, who explained in a state broadcast that the decision was taken after Governor Nasir El-Rufai met with senior government officials to review the level of compliance of the measures taken to contain the spread of COVID 19. Balarabe, however, stated that commercial buses were allowed to operate, but must comply to the new rule of not more than two passengers per row. She wared that the state government would suspend all forms of pubic transportation in the state if it is compelled by circumstances to do so. She said the state government “will today (Wednesday) be taking steps to stop the Abuja-Kaduna train service, which needs to be suspended for a few weeks,” The deputy governor noted that government has directed all utility vehicles that have been assigned to officials be recalled in order “to enhance the state’s capacity for rapid response and contact tracing, monitoring and supervision of surveillance activities should any positive case be identified. She directed that the vehicles should be parked in the yard of the Ministry of Public Works and Infrastructure while the drivers of the utility vehicles should report to the Commissioner of Public Works to submit their contact details. The deputy governor said: “The state government is committed to getting food and necessities across to identified vulnerable groups should a lockdown become inevitable. “The required supplies are being procured while a system of distribution to the persons that most need them is being worked out.” Balarabe reiterated the ban on large gatherings, the closure of markets, with the exception of traders in food, medicines and essential items and called on the people to stay home and avoid unnecessary travel. ‘’Government recognises that compliance with these measures come with a level of inconvenience for which we readily apologise. But we trust that everyone understands the necessity for these sacrifices as the most pragmatic way to keep people safe and alive,’’ she added.