Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture, (ECCIMA), has commended the immense contributions of Dangote Industries Limited to the Nigerian economy as well as patronage of locally assembled ANAMMCO trucks. Speaking at the Dangote Special Day during the 2020 Enugu International Trade Fair, the ECCIMA President, Mr. Emma Nwandu, acknowledged the Group’s contributions to the growth of Nigeria economy. He said that the exploits of the indigenous conglomerate group showed great level and high degree of vision, creative thinking, research, innovations, doggedness, hard work and industry. According to Nwandu, the Chamber commended Alhaji Dangote for his untiring and adventurous spirit to buoy up productivity for the growth of the Nigerian economy and indeed the African continent. The Chamber President specially praised Dangote for patronizing ANAMMCO locally assembled trucks, which has kept the assembly lines of the truck plant busy, creating value for all stakeholders, enabling the staff to hold their jobs and boosting the economy of the South East. Representative of Dangote Industries Limited, Bankole George, in his remarks, promised to maintain the partnership with ECCIMA to stimulated economic activities in the South East. Bankole described the Enugu Trade Fair as an avenue for the company to connect with their numerous customers in the South East. “It is a home coming as the region is known for innovation and industry. We at Dangote Group and people of the South East share the trait of continuously pushing beyond limits and discovering new levels of success, he added. Bankole who is also the Regional Sales Director, South East, Dangote Cement, the company has taken steps to improve the skills of block makers and masons who use cement in their daily work. He said: “We also engage the Artisans pan Nigeria with continuous training and retraining of Artisans with practical demonstrations on the right usage of cement and the best practice in their chosen careers at various functions. “We engage them in the right selection of the basic raw materials with emphasis on the mixing ratios, right applications and usage of the right tools for sandcrete blocks productions, tiling and brick layering activities. “We collaborated with other Building Industry professionals and Regulatory Bodies such as SON, COREN, NIA and NIQS on the sustainability of high standard of cement all the times.” Dr. Orji Iheanyi of Sales & Marketing Unit, Dangote Fertilizer, in his presentation said the country’s population is on the rise hence the need for large production of fertilizer to put food on people’s table. There is an urgent need for fertiliser production in Nigeria to help increase farm produce. “If this cannot be done adequately that means there will be shortage of food in the country.” he said. Dr. Orji added that with the fertilizer plant’s capacity, the farmers would not lack fertilizer for their farming, adding that once the company launched its indigenous fertilizer in few months time, Dangote group would be the major fertilizer producer in Africa.