Reviews tactics in against criminals Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja One week after 51 persons were killed in five Kaduna villages, by bandits terrorising Birnin-Gwari and environs, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has said it will increase personnel in area to 600, to effectively fight the terrorists. NAF has also pledged to review the tactics of its operation in the troubled Birnin-Gwari, as part of efforts to rid the area of armed banditry, terrorism, cattle rustling and kidnapping. The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar stated this at the inauguration ceremony of 20 by 1 Block of bedroom at 271 NAF Detachment in Birnin-Gwari yesterday. He said since the establishment of the 271 units, there has been remarkable improvement in the security situation around the Birnin-Gwari axis, as NAF is constantly reviewing Tactics Techniques and Procedures in order to ensure the security of lives and properties, while preserving the territorial integrity of Nigeria. According to CAS, “our desire is to build more of these. We want to increase the number of personnel in Birnin-Gwari to at least nothing less than 600 personnel. “We also want to ensure that we increase the aviation fuel storage in Birnin-Gwari to enable our helicopters land and pick fuel and continue with their operation to protect our communities.” Abubakar recalled that, “NAF embarked on the construction of befitting accommodation in all NAF locations within the 6 Geo-political zones of the country. “The personnel of 271 NAF Birnin Gwari are equally not left out of this development, hence, the provision of this 20 x 1 bedroom accommodation built to provide a place of rest after a hard a day’s job. Let me state, that this project we are about to commission today is a product of our commitment to improve on personnel welfare. “I am pleased to note that this building and other projects yet to be commissioned would be named after those personnel that paid the supreme price in line of duty. While we pray for the repose of their souls, I urge officers, airmen and airwomen to continue to display the values of selflessness, bravery and dedication in the conduct of their respective duties. “Let me also commend the efforts of our personnel involved in Operation DIRAN MIKIYA for a job well done so far. It is our duty to protect the citizenry and critical assets as well as bring succour to the despaired as we discharge our constitutional responsibilities to the nation. “We need to keep up the high morale and maintain the momentum so that the local communities are free to go about their lives without fear of molestation form bandits.” He said. Speaking with newsmen shortly after the event, Emir of Birnin-Gwari, Alhaji Zubair Jibril Mai-Gwari II commended the Nigerian Air Force, saying that, their presence has reduced the terror meted on his people by the bandits.