Alex Enumah in Abuja The Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami (SAN), has reiterated the determination of the federal government to take over 100 million Nigerians out of poverty. To this end, Malami said the government has started empowering Nigerians with macro loans to boost small scale business activities in the country. The AGF spoke at the distribution of micro loans to 1,500 women and youths in Kebbi State. According to a statement by the Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations, Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Dr Umar Gwandu, the AGF noted that: “Achieving economically productive, socially responsible and culturally viable womenfolk require systematic and consistent efforts as women constitute a critical sector and essential component to reckon with for any meaningful national development.” He said that the micro loan would boost business activities in the area especially in view of the forthcoming Argungu International Fishing and Cultural Festivals. The statement added that the federal government has consciously and deliberately come out with a number of schemes to generate employment and enhance the productivity of Nigerians. These schemes, which he noted included the N-Power, School Feeding Programmes, anchor borrowers and associated programmes, among others, have created employment value chain
opportunities. “In addition to facilitating job creation through establishment of new Ministries, Departments and Agencies, the federal government is
committed to massive employment of the teeming Nigerian populace in various Ministries, Departments and Agencies including security and paramilitary sectors. “According to the minister, the federal government has also provided enabling atmosphere for the thriving and flourishing of private firms, companies, mills and industries of both local and foreign collaborators with a view to generating employment for the teeming Nigerians,” the statement read in part. It added that Malami, who congratulated the beneficiaries of the scheme, called on them to make judicious use of the funds provided.