Chiamaka Ozulumba The Barge Operators Association of Nigeria (BOAN) has appealed to the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) to revoke the immediate ban placed on barging to avoid impeding trade and increasing gridlock around port communities. NCS at the weekend accused the barge operators of diverting containers to illegal warehouses from seaport terminals without approvals from the management. In a press briefing, BOAN refuted the allegation, stressing that barge operators do not deliver containers at any warehouse. Addressing the issue, BOAN President Edeme Kelikume said their operations strictly involved the movement of containers from one terminal to another designated terminal where the owners carry them. He explained that before any container was loaded in a barge, such a container must have been properly screened and cleared by all agencies involved who are usually issued approvals. Kelikume said they were surprised to see a message circulating on social media on the ban of their activities, which was later confirmed by some of their members who were stopped from operating at the Apapa and Tincan Island ports on Monday. He reminded the NCS that such actions were against its core mandate of facilitating trade as it would lead to port congestion and thereby force importers to explore other options. He disclosed that BOAN members within a year, evacuated over 300,000 TEUs of import containers excluding empties which represented about 25 per cent of total TEU recorded in the country. Explaining why their operation was birthed, Kelikume recalled it was as a result of recommendations reached during meetings of the Presidential Committee on Apapa gridlock which found out that over 600,000 trucks moved in and out of the ports. Imagine having over 600,000 trucks moving in and out of the ports? The economy is currently facing multiple challenges of sudden crash in oil prices, impending devaluation of the naira and trade disruptions occasions by the global COVID-19 outbreak, “Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) is also battling to reduce vessel waiting times and drive port decongestion. It is therefore imperative to call upon the leadership of the Nigerian Customs Service to immediately reverse this circular and engage with critical stakeholders on how to address their concerns. “We enjoin members of BOAN and other stakeholders to maintain calm and await the prompt reversal of this circular by the Nigerian Customs Service. “We further thank the management of Nigerian Ports Authority and all other critical stakeholders for the support of the barging industry and growth of the Nigerian economy,” he added.