Kayode Fasua in Abeokuta A Christian leader in the Ado-Odo Otta/Ifo zone of the Cherubim and Seraphim Church in Ogun State, Apostle Gbenga Awosanmi, has commended the founder of the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN), Prophet T.B Joshua, for finding the courage to act on divine instruction, in the establishment of “a massive and mind-blowing prayer mountain” in Ikotun, Lagos. Awosanmi, who is General Overseer of C&S Church, Ogo Ireti unit, Iju-Aga in Ifo Local Government area, said from all indications, the prayer mountain, “an architectural wonder constructed on an expanse of wetland, swamp and ocean”, could not have come into being through human imagination. Besides, he said the mountain, which has started attracting Christian pilgrims from all over the world, would go a long way in bringing about unity among Nigerian churches, even as he stressed that “soon, the spirit of denominationalism will disappear among Nigerian Christians”. Speaking with THISDAY shortly after his church’s anniversary at the weekend, Awosanmi said, “On the New Year Eve when the mountain was consecrated for people’s use, I was there and I testified to how people who came from different parts of the world were made comfortable to have quiet time with God. “Such a man of God who conceived such a great idea, committing huge resources to establish a massive and mind-blowing prayer mountain” deserves to be canonnised,” he said. He added that at the new prayer mountain established by the SCOAN, natural scenery, as it is witnessed in the Israeli environment, where Jesus Christ was born, pervaded the vast arena. “There are animals like antelopes and sheep, and birds like peacocks and geese, while the SCOAN also rears fishes for distribution to the poor, apart from having guest houses of tasteful standards,” he recalled. He reminded that the Prayer Mountain was where Joshua began his church ministration way back in 1995, noting that such a place is symbolic. Awosanmi, however, urged for unity in the Christian community, stressing that the ongoing unification process going on in the Cherubim and Seraphim Church’s household is a welcome development. “When the process of unification in C&S is completed, we must all submit ourselves to whatever decision is reached and make sacrifice by foregoing some titles as would be prescribed, for the sake of Christ,” he urged.