With countless unanticipated changes racking the Nigerian political scenes in recent times, it is good to know that there are folks who have emerged stronger, advancing through the ranks, and with a good deal more clout than was formerly possessed. Senator Lekan Mustapha is one of these, and at three score years, his plumage reflects more and more of his recovered groove. It was a time of glee and gratefulness in Senator Mustapha’s residence in the Ijebu Ode area of Ogun State. The senator, who currently represents Ogun East Senatorial district, had just turned 60 and dignitaries from all over trouped in to celebrate him and his accomplishments in recent years. The event itself was something of a high-end celebration – seemingly regardless of Senator Mustapha’s intentions – with the attendance of such luminaries as former Governor Ibikunle Amosun; former Minister of Finance, Jubril Martins-Kuye; former Chairman of Ogun State All Progressives Congress (APC) party, Derin Adebiyi; the Ebumawe of Ago-Iwoye, Oba Razaq Adenugba; Chief Executive Officer of Rites Foods, Adebola Adegunwa; and lots more. Senator Mustapha (full name Ramoni Olalekan Mustapha) has had his time in the sun, business and polity duly accounted for. His political career, especially, fully kick-started in 2007 when he was elected to represent his Ogun East constituency in the Nigerian Senate, and then appointed to serve in committees on Niger Delta, Interior Affairs, Commerce and Capital Markets. Since then, Senator Mustapha has made several wins for himself and his party, but not without experiencing one loss or two. The recent years have especially had their toll on the senator, as he fell behind on the political game in Ogun State. But one learns a thing or two when pushed to the back burners, and that is what Senator Mustapha did: learned from old losses, shave off evaluated excesses, and float to the surface. Thus, his victory in the Senate elections was proof that he never truly lost or exhausted his mojo, and that quiet and contented demeanour is not a facade. Doubtless, Senator Mustapha has much to be grateful for – three terms in the National Senate, for one. At 60, the best things for the Senator are by no means far behind but arrayed in an excellent fashion for the years to come.