PREMIER LEAGUE *Win leave Liverpool two games from title Manchester United completed the Premier League double over derby rivals Manchester City for the first time in a decade as Anthony Martial’s first-half goal and an injury time strike from Scott McTominay gave them victory at Old Trafford on Sunday evening. This thunderous encounter was a personal nightmare for Manchester City’s normally reliable Brazilian goalkeeper Ederson, who gifted Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side both goals in sharply contrasting fashion. He allowed Martial’s routine shot to squirm under his body from a quick Bruno Fernandes free-kick on the half-hour and then, with seconds left, threw a clearance straight to McTominay, who showed great technique to send a long-range finish, struck first time, into the net in front of a delirious Stretford End. It is a win that leaves Liverpool – who now have a 25-point lead at the top of the table – requiring only two more wins to secure their first league title for 30 years and Manchester United only three points behind fourth-placed Chelsea, after their first derby league double since Sir Alex Ferguson’s retirement. City hotly contested the free-kick, given by referee Mike Dean for a foul by Ilkay Gundogan on Fernandes, that led to Martial’s goal – although United also felt they were denied a penalty when Fred was booked for diving after tangling with Nicolas Otamendi. Elsewhere, Carlo Ancelotti endured a miserable return to Stamford Bridge as Chelsea thrashed his Everton side 4-0 to boost their top-four Premier League hopes. Helped by the inclusion of 18-year-old Billy Gilmour, who made his full Premier League debut, Chelsea started the game with a far greater tempo and went ahead after 14 minutes when Mason Mount ended an 18-game goal drought by firing past Jordan Pickford at his near post. Pedro then latched on to a superb through ball by Ross Barkley to score his first league goal of the season as Frank Lampard’s side took control. Everton had a chance to strike back five minutes later but top scorer Dominic Calvert-Lewin duffed a shot with only Kepa Arrizabalaga to beat. Two goals in the space of three minutes shortly after the break ended the game as a contest as Willian found the bottom corner with a low shot and Olivier Giroud continued his renaissance with a tap-in from a short corner. Everton have been in form since Ancelotti’s first game in charge on Boxing Day, during which time they have picked up 18 points. But this was a desperately disappointing day for the Italian on his return to the club where he won the league and FA Cup double in 2009-10. The result meant Everton remain 12th, six points behind fifth-placed Wolves, while Chelsea stay fourth and extended their lead over Nuno Espirito Santo’s side to five points. Including two wins over Tottenham boss Jose Mourinho, Lampard now has three victories over former Chelsea managers this season as fans serenaded him with “super Frank” from all four sides of the stadium.