As the peculiar regime of a non-cost-reflective electricity tariff structure is stifling the critical power sector, plus regulatory inconsistencies and heavy debts by Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of government, hobbling deliverables, the viability and survival of core stakeholders like DISCOs clearly hinge on urgent tariff review to align with the market reality of feasible service delivery as well as government meeting the terms of the sector’s privatization, writes Louis Achi Clearly, human civilizations are power-driven. Over time, the discovery and domestication of electricity, the most popular energy source on the planet for powering domestic and business processes have proven its indispensability to societal progress and overall national development. It’s then little wonder that back home in Nigeria, the sheer passion and debate which new policy positions by the government on the electricity sector customarily provoke considerable debate. Significantly, access to energy remains low in Nigeria. With approximately 90 million citizens lacking access to grid electricity, Nigeria has the largest access-deficit in sub-Saharan Africa and second to India, globally. The switch from a publicly-owned to essentially privately-owned power sector has not yielded the expected outcomes, translating to extreme sectoral stress. Perhaps not surprisingly, high losses, low collections and lack of cost-effective recovery tariff regimes have spawned an annual financial deficit to the sector of approximately $1 billion. According to its recent report, ‘Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) Reform: Processes, Challenges and the Way Forward’, the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) reiterated that a cost-reflective tariff structure must be developed and implemented to solve the perennial electricity problem in the country and make the sector financially viable.
BPE said the electricity market was haemorrhaging badly needed money due to a lack of a cost-reflective tariff regime. The BPE presented this report to the National Economic Council (NEC) Ad-hoc Committee on the Power Sector. More, the agency revealed that heavy debts by Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs) of government were also hampering the growth of the power sector. It further pointed out in the report that the federal government’s inability to follow through its commitments had affected the Performance Agreements (PAs), and frowned on the refusal of parties to adhere to commitments made before the handover. In the report, BPE said its analysis had revealed that the power sector would require funding to the tune of $7.6 billion over a five-year period, stressing that there is a correlation between energy consumption and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita.
It listed other major challenges facing the sector to include withdrawal of the transitional subsidy support and dumping of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)-backed Nigeria Electricity Market Stabilisation Facility (NEMSF) on the balance sheet of the Distribution Companies (Discos). The BPE also named the major shift in Nigeria’s macroeconomic indicators (exchange rate, inflation) and lack of a stable regulatory environment as factors hurting the electricity sector. It expressed dismay at the grave shortfall in power generation in the country, which averaged about 3,500 megawatts in the past 10 years, and the liquidity crisis in the sector. The agency lamented that Discos collected only about 30 percent of market requirements.
On what it felt was the way forward, the bureau recommended the creation of a robust institutional framework that would be ad-hoc in nature, made up of critical actors, and chaired by the Vice President, as the first step towards resolution of the power crisis.
The BPE report apparently mirrors the mood of the sector as the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has announced the implementation of a cost-reflective tariff in the electricity sector from April 1, 2020. The BPE report even went further to accurately observe that “there is also lack of proper coordination of the public sector agencies involved in the power sector and the refusal of parties to adhere strictly to commitments made before handover”, noting that there was an urgent need for implementation of the power sector recovery plan. It added that the challenges to the power sector are as old as Nigeria and to solve them, it insisted that the political leadership must be committed, have sincerity of purpose and the will to take hard decisions. Clearly, the unseemly generation of ‘political electricity’ must yield to the production of useful light.
The report stated, “Nigeria’s goal is to provide universal access to power for Nigerians by 2030. To achieve that, we must have a roadmap and a policy that will attract private sector investment, human capital and an institutional framework to reach set goals.” NERC’s Intervention, MYTO Regime
In a policy tweak, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has stated that the electricity tariffs being paid by consumers will increase in April this year. NERC disclosed this in its December 2019 Minor Review of Multi-Year Tariff Order 2015 and Minimum Remittance Order for the Year 2020. According to the commission, the order was issued to reflect the impact of changes in the minor review variables in the determination of cost-reflective tariffs and relevant tariff and market shortfalls for 2019 and 2020.
It said the order also determined the minimum remittances payable by the distribution companies (Discos) in meeting their market obligations based on the allowed tariffs. Discos immediately signaled their intention to enforce the new electricity tariffs from April 1, 2020, explaining that the new tariffs ordered by NERC would cater for revenue shortfalls in the sector. In a tariff review clarification notice from the Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), the Discos explained the tariffs shall remain as they had been since 2015, but would change from April 2020. “The tariffs shall remain the same as they presently are (i.e. 2015 levels) until April 1, 2020, when there will be a slight increment to cater for tariff shortfalls, which shall be gradually passed on to the consumer until this is fully completed by the end of 2021. In view of the foregoing, we state emphatically that there shall be no change or increase in the existing electricity tariff until April 1, 2020, when the new adjusted tariffs shall begin to gradually reflect the dynamism of our macro-economy,” the Discos said. The Discos explained that the NERC was empowered by the Electric Power Sector Reform Act to carry out minor reviews of the Multi-Year Tariff Order 2015 twice a year. “NERC has just reviewed the MYTO 2015 and has published an order on tariffs and minimum remittance for January to June 2020. The tariffs anticipate changes in the currency exchange rates between the United States and Nigeria, changes in the rate of inflation and gas prices,” ANED stated. Thus, tariffs will join the VAT rate and other tax rates as commodities that have seen sizeable increases over the last month. It could be recalled that the World Bank in its Programme-for-results information document for the Power Sector Recovery Based Loan to the Federal Government had noted that the inconsistent application of the tariff policy (the Multi-Year Tariff Order or MYTO) resulted in the deterioration of the financial situation of sector companies, especially Discos. In particular, lack of tariff adjustment to account for depreciation of the Naira in 2016 severely impacted the power sector, as approximately 65 percent of the sector costs are denominated in hard currency. Declining revenues further constrained access to commercial financing by Discos, whose balance sheets were already weak. Challenges, Access to Financing
In the agreement sealed between the federal government and DISCOs, the government had agreed to provide a cost-effective tariff, pay N100 billion subsidy and make the DISCOs debt-free to enable them to deliver adequate and sustainable power to consumers. The DISCOs had also agreed to deliver several million pre-paid meters to consumers, improve customer service delivery, extend the distribution network, and reduce power interruptions while delivering stable power to consumers. But this was not to be. From THISDAY checks, barely five years after, the government has not yet put in place the cost-reflective tariff. NERC’s pronouncement last December would appear to have provided some traction on the tariff hike front. In effect, words, the cost of providing electricity to consumers remains higher than the tariff they pay. More, it has not also paid the subsidy agreed upon in the agreement. As a result, DISCOs stated that the development had affected their ability to provide adequate meters as well as meet other expectations. Poor liquidity situation has constrained the DISCOs from investing substantial resources to expand their capacities in order to supply adequate and stable power to consumers at an affordable cost. It showed that the financial situation of DISCOs is worsened by the unwillingness of banks to provide loans to them. Without access to financing, Discos have not progressed much with investments in metering and rehabilitation of distribution networks. This has resulted in poor service delivery. Further, declining revenues have also constrained the federal government’s ability to enforce key contracts (including Discos’ Vesting Contracts) with resulting non-payment across the supply chain, including to gas suppliers of the thermal power plants. Payment of arrears to the gas suppliers and the occasional sabotage of petroleum infrastructure has led to an erratic gas supply, further impacting service delivery. Poor service delivery, in turn, has made tariff adjustments difficult. These scenarios cannot be over-stressed. While instituting an effective cost-reflective tariff is very critical to the improvement of the electricity sector, the emerging consensus is that it must go hand-in-hand with a commensurate improvement in the quality of electricity supply. Metering coverage must be hugely increased and power supply duration per day must be scaled up. A contrary scenario will disincentivize customers and hobble prompt payment of bills. TCN’s Pitch
On its part, the government-owned Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) has stated that Nigerians should be prepared to pay cost-reflective electricity tariffs in order to enjoy the benefits of the liberalization of the power sector. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, TCN, Usman Mohammed, who said this last Thursday, in Lagos, noted that the government had continued to pump money into the power sector despite privatizing it more than six years ago. Mohammed spoke during the groundbreaking for the replacement of old wires on the Ikeja West-Alimosho-Ogba-Alausa-Ota transmission lines, noting that when completed, the project would allow Ikeja Electric to take the full capacity of all the transformers along the substations to be supplied by the lines. He said: “We are working to transform the TCN to be one of the best transmission companies in the world. But I want to tell the Nigerian public that we cannot move forward if we don’t pay for electricity. “I want to tell Nigerians that there is no relationship between poverty and payment for electricity.” According to him, Nigeria has the cheapest electricity tariff in West Africa, revealing that the government had sunk N1.5tn into the power sector in terms of payment assurance guarantee for power generation.
Mohammed added, “We have to stop this government intervention and we can only stop it when contracts become effective. Contracts can only be effective when you have cost-reflective tariffs.” Solving the Liquidity Crunch
In its latest report, ‘Solving the Liquidity Crunch in Nigeria’s Power Sector’,” PwC stated: “About 40 percent of the population have no access to electricity and supply is usually epileptic for those that have access. However, the country’s current operational capacity stands at less than 4,000MW, less than 8,400MW projection for 2018 in Multi-Year Tariff Order (MYTO). “The installed capacity of 7,000 MW is also less than the pre-privatization target of 11. 879MW by 2012 and post-privatization target of 14, 218MW and 40,000MW by 2013 and 2020 respectively. The country’s bulk of electricity generation comes from thermal sources (gas-fired power plants). As a result, inadequate gas supply often affects power generation. Gas-fired power plants account for more than 77 percent of total electricity generated while hydro sources accounted for 23 percent. Insufficient gas supply and variability – rainfall and water level at hydro-plants among other challenges constitute to impact power generation in Nigeria.” The report explained further that the liquidity crunch is the biggest and the most worrisome challenge facing Nigeria’s power sector. Therefore, the tariff framework or electricity pricing structure in Nigeria is non-cost reflective. Hence, industry participants often complain that electricity charges to customers do not reflect the cost of generation, transmission, and distribution. Consequently, DISCOs have been unable to collect a significant proportion of the total billings to customers as total revenue collected by all the DISCOs for energy-distributed lags the total billings. “DISCOs have been struggling to meet their obligations to the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET) and Market Operators (MO). This implies that about N3.4 out of N10 billed to customers are not paid to DISCOs as and when due. This predisposes the operators to liquidity constraints such as DISCOs remittances to NBET for energy distributed is less than 50 percent. Remittances In Q1’2019, only about 28 percent of the N190 billion invoice (comprising invoice of N161.4 billion for energy purchased from NBET and an invoice of N28.8 billion for administrative services from MO) of DISCOs were remitted. In one year (Q1’2018-Q1’2019), DISCOs’ outstanding remittance to NBET and MO stood at about N523.8 billion and N80.3 billion respectively.
Consequently, the NBET has in turn been unable to meet their obligation to the generation companies (GENCOs) thus, creating a liquidity challenge that has plagued the electricity industry since privatization in 2013. Is Mamman Generating ‘Political Electricity’?
According to the Minister of Power, Saleh Mamman, briefing newsmen after the weekly Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting held at the State House, Abuja, recently, whereas Nigeria generates as much as 13,000 megawatts of electricity, it can neither transmit nor distribute all. He noted that the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) can only transmit 7,000 megawatts while the distribution companies can only distribute 3,000 megawatts. Mamman stated, “We presented achievements right from the day we took the oath of office to date. We want to tell Nigerians what we achieved in the value chains. Nigeria can generate up to 13,000 megawatts of electricity, but we cannot transmit all. So we presented to the council the solution to the problem of our generation. It is mainly distribution. “We can transmit, we can generate 13,000 megawatts; we transmit 7,000 megawatts, but can only distribute 3,000. There is a lot of work to be done in transmission companies and the government is now willing to take up the matter immediately.” What is Mamman’s solution? Wait for it – bring in a new foreign company, Siemens! His words: “One of the things I will tell you is that the government has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the German firm, Siemens. They are to align between distribution and transmission and also generation so that at the end of the day, if we generate 13,000 megawatts, the transmission will take the whole 13,000 and the DisCos will distribute the same. That way, everyone will have 24/7 electricity supply and Nigerians will be happy,” While Mamman’s sincerity may not be contested, his facts are certainly questionable. After seven years of privatizing the electricity sector, is Mamman suggesting that the nation return to the starting block? Is he generating mere political electricity for effect rather than useful light? The controversy continues.