By Nseobong Okon-Ekong The National Chairman of African Democratic Congress (ADC), Chief Ralph Nwosu, has dissociated himself from the decision of a faction of ADC to merge with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). A ‘merger’ talks between ADC and PDP held last week during the Southwest Stakeholders Forum of PDP, which took place at the Oyo State Government House, Ibadan. At the meeting were some stalwarts of ADC including the former governor of Osun State, Olagunsoye Oyinlola. Also in attendance were the Deputy National Chairman, South, Elder Yemi Akinwonmi; Southwest Chairman, Mr. Eddy Oyefeso; Chief Bode George; member, PDP Board of Trustees, Chief Soboyede Okanlawon; former Minister of Defence, Erelu Olushola Obada; former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Senator Kofoworola Buknor-Akerele; Dr. Doyin Okupe; Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Diran Odeyemi; Dr. Ladipo Adebutu, Mr. Eitayo Jegede, Mr. Adedeji Doherty; Chief Clement Faborode and Mr. Kunmi Mustapha among others. The major highlight of the meeting was an agreement to hold a unification rally in Ibadan where Olagunsoye Oyinlola and other ADC members will be formally presented to the PDP elders and the official collapse of the ADC political structure into the PDP. However, according to the ADC National Chairman, Ralph Nwosu, the alleged merger meeting was held without his knowledge. “I am not aware of the purported meeting where a decision was taken to collapse the ADC structure into the PDP. To the best of my knowledge, the African Democratic Congress, which I am the chairman, is intact. We are not merging with PDP or any other political party in the country. ADC has always been the most authentic political party with clear ideas. The ADC brand is very strong,” he said. In a statement issued by the Chairman, Caretaker Committee of Lagos ADC, Olayiwola Abisoye, the party has not merged with the PDP or any other political party in Nigeria. All members and stakeholders of ADC should disregard any publication that the party has merged or collapsed into PDP. ADC as a party is not merging or collapsing into PDP or any other party. We remain the only credible alternative political party in Nigeria. We are on a mission to rescue Nigeria from 16 years of PDP fiasco and eight years of APC disaster. Everyone is allowed freedom of association but ADC remains firm,” he posited. Corroborating Nwosu and Abisoye, Mabel Oboh, Deputy Publicity Secretary, ADC Lagos State, explained that the party remains indivisible. “There is no cause for alarm. ADC is very much intact, working towards making Nigeria a better country come 2023,” she said.