By John Shiklam in Kaduna Despite the 24-hour curfew imposed to stop the spread of the deadly Coronavirus in Kaduna state, 11 people, including a traditional ruler, were reportedly killed by gunmen in three communities in Kaduna state. A statement by Luka Binniyat, spokesman of the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU), said the killings took place in Guruku ward, Kuduru village both in Chikun Local Government Area and Jagindi, in Jema’a Local LGA. He said in Guruku ward, six people were killed on Tuesday afternoon when bandits invaded the area. He said on Monday, the District Head of Jagidi, Jama’a LGA, Mr. Danlami Barde, and his brother, Musa Barde, were killed when suspected herdsmen attacked the community. Binniyat said further that on Thursday last week, three people were killed in Kuduru, Chikun LGA, by suspected herdsmen who set houses and foodstuff ablaze, rustled cows and and looted valuables. He said those killed in Kuduru include: Hassana Bala, Jamilu Hassan and Halima Bala, adding that Haliru Nawela and Kure Dogonyaro escaped with grievous injuries from gun shots. The statement called on the Federal and state governments to deploy security to the ravaged villages and secure lives and property. The statement appealed to good spirited individuals and corporate bodies to assist surviving victims with food, shelter and drugs especially at this time of extreme difficulties. However, when contacted, spokesman of the Kaduna state police command, Mohammed Jalige said, he was not aware of the incidents and promised to make his findings and get back. SOKAPU also drew the attention of the people of Kaduna state to the reality of the presence of the deadly coronavirus in the state and commended the state government for the proactive measures taken so far to ensure that the virus was contained. “We equally applaud the residents of Kaduna state for abiding by the orders of the government authorities remain in a lockdown situation in spite of the difficult situations associated with this directive. “We encourage the people to continue to obey instructions and cooperate with the law enforcement authorities to ensure that we all remain safe. “Aware that our governor Nasiru Nasiru El-Rufai is the first known victim to test positive of the virus, we wish him a quick recovery and restoration back to his work of serving the good people of Kaduna state,” the statement said. It however, called called on the state government to establish a facility in Kafanchan to handle cases that might arise in the zone, “taking cognisance of the fact that Kaduna South Senatorial District does not have a hospital with the capacity to handle any eventual outbreak of the disease”.