By Bennett Oghifo In light of the ongoing coronavirus situation, Jaguar Land Rover has confirmed that it will temporarily suspend production at its UK manufacturing facilities over the course of next week. The company’s intention is to resume in the week of 20 April, subject to review of the rapidly-changing circumstances. As a responsible business, Jaguar Land Rover is operating in line with advice from the NHS and Public Health England to minimise the spread of the coronavirus, whilst implementing plans to safeguard its business continuity. The company will work towards an orderly return to production once conditions permit. Currently, Jaguar Land Rover’s manufacturing plants in Brazil and India continue operating. The company’s joint venture plant in China reopened in the week of 24 February, as life begins to get back to normal in the country. Although the company’s focus must be on its business and responsibilities to employees, Jaguar Land Rover is doing whatever it can to support its communities through the current situation. The company’s thoughts are with those directly affected by COVID-19 and with the healthcare professionals, whose role in combating this virus is appreciated by all. New Defender Inspires Land Rover Above and Beyond Musto Range Inspired by the durability and capability of New Defender, the Above and Beyond collection of men’s and women’s performance clothing and technical equipment is now available in sub-Sahara Africa. Incorporating 50 years of Musto heritage in world-leading performance clothing, the collection includes the Welded Thermo jacket with RECCO integrated reflective antenna to help rescue teams locate you in difficult terrain. The jacket also features PrimaLoft Aerogel-lined pockets that help keep mobile phones charged for longer. The Rodinia hybrid jacket has YKK Quickburst zip technology to transform it into a gilet in seconds. It also features PrimaLoft Black Eco insulation – a lightweight alternative to down layers that doesn’t compromise warmth, comfort or flexibility. Paul Stoneham, Musto Executive Chairman, said: “Designing technical performance clothing is at the very core of our expertise at Musto and this partnership with Land Rover brings together two innovative British brands, both with a strong heritage. The Above and Beyond collection will provide adventurers of all types with the protection on the outside that will allow them to perform at their very best from the inside thanks to the state-of-the-art material technology, durability and comfort of the range.” The collection also includes tough flasks and water bottles, a foldable multi tool to go to extremes and a seam sealed backpack with a 25 litre main compartment heat-welded Hypalon lashing points. Technical keyrings packed with pocket sized tools, a water resistant travel wallet and men’s and women’s reversible T-shirts complete the Above and Beyond range. The Above and Beyond collection is available in sub-Sahara Africa.