Rebecca Ejifoma The second edition of the Amazing Talent Schools inter house sports competition won’t be forgotten so easily. As pupils dressed in red, blue, green and yellow sport wears for the exciting funfair competition that Friday morning, it was obvious they would defy the indecisive weather. While each house expressed its skills in the march past from one end of the Chrisland College fields at Idimu, the proprietor of the school, Mr. Eddie Odivwri, and his entourage, received their trays of special gifts and garlands to adorn his neck. The Chairman, Mr. Lucky Arhere, a chief, described the sport activities as magnificent, as he applauded the children’s delightful performances. “From this, I think a lot of talents can be discovered, monitored and developed”. According to him, there is a lot of correlation between sports and education. “Education is not complete without sports. A child who does well in academics can also do well in sports”. Noting that in the past parents didn’t encourage their children to go into sports, Arhere added, “Now, sports is a big business. People like Okocha, Oliseh, Kano and others make a lot of money more than professors. In fact, they employ professors. “They are into good business and contribute a lot to the economy. That is very important. They give back to the society more than a lot of people who are into purely educational activities.” The chairman expressed that Amazing Talent School is a good and growing school. “It lays a very great foundation for the children. If you build a house on a good foundation, the house is likely to stand for a long time and that is this school doing for them both academically and sports”. According to the proprietor, Mr. Odiwri, with the outbreak of the notorious and devastating COVID-19 affecting every aspect of man’s lives, as a school, they preach hand washing. He continued: “We have continued to nudge the children to observe all basic hygienic practices, as well as inculcating the regular hand-washing routines, even as we strongly believe that God is our shield.” The proprietor, however, implored parents to pay as much attention to sports as they do to academics. “We live in a world that has gone diverse. Let us continue to support and sponsor them both in their regular academic pursuit and their sporting exploits”. Indeed, the pupils – both current and alumni – expressed their talents in match pass, athletics, filling the bottles, filling the baskets, picking the balls. Others were: getting ready for school, sack race, lime and spoon and slippers race, old pupils race, relay race by invited schools, staff race. Parents were made to participate in races and match passes, too.