Nigerian-based clean energy startup, Homefort Energy, has won $5,000 grant funding after emerging the overall winner of the Kingdom Hackathon competition prize of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG). Kingdom Hackathon competition, which held in Lagos recently, is a tech event that is focused on solving social problems through technology, an initiative of the Young Adults and Youth Affairs of RCCG. The Nigerian startup makes cooking gas (LPG) affordable and accessible to underserved markets in Nigeria, using pay-as-you-go model and digital innovations.
The event brought together innovators who are tackling social and global issues and offers support to them through mentorship and funding. Founder of Homefort Energy, Opeyemi Owosho, won the first place position and went home with $5,000.
Owosho also got six months free voucher of office space and mentorship support from Workcity, a partner of Kingdom Hack 2.0. The second position went to Airsync, a balloon-powered satellite platform, for detecting oil spill and vandalism. Airsync, also got a six months free voucher of office space and mentorship support from Workcity.
The third place went to Yudimy, a startup that leverages on behavioural science and Machine Learning (ML) technology for human capital development. Yudimy also got six months free voucher of office space and mentorship support from Workcity.
No fewer than nine finalists were shortlisted for the competition after receiving applications from about 100 startup companies from Nigeria to compete for the grant. National Youth Pastor of RCCG, Pastor Precious Akingbade described Kingdom Hackathon as an initiative designed by RCCG in alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The International Director of Programmes and Church Planting, Pastor Oluwadamilare Adeboye, said this was to support African youths to unleash their entrepreneurial potential to lead the change so desired by Africa. He encouraged the winners to utilise the resources provided to them to scale their solutions to make meaningful social impact and to also set the pace for other enterprising African youths. According to the first place winner, “The Kingdom Hackathon grant will give me the opportunity to scale my business and provide affordable cooking gas to many homes in Nigeria with an easy-to-use technology.”