There is absolutely nothing eye-battling about a woman behind a man’s success. Much like the invisible pepper in a spicy Yoruba stew, the clout of the successful women behind successful men is something of an acknowledged fact. The only instance or scenario that compels a second glance is one in which the successful woman is another man’s husband, in which case that pot of stew must be stirred again. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has, in his brief time as the governor of Lagos State, achieved a great deal. In many ways, Sanwo-Olu has already laid down tracks and the coming years will only accentuate as evidence of revolutionary turnabouts in the state’s history. These successes have been laid at the feet of Sanwo-Olu and his patrons and allies, including the leonine boss, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Tinubu especially has been credited with being the most supportive patron of Sanwo-Olu’s administration, always available to lend an ear to policy considerations and such, as well as yanking practical solutions from his armoury of experience and influence. These suggestions from Tinubu are reportedly always embraced by Sanwo-Olu, and that strategy has not yet failed either party. The administration continues to be strong, stable and aptly frustratingly decisive to the opposition. Recently, however, rumours have emerged that Senator Remi Tinubu, the wife of Bola Tinubu, is the actual power behind Sanwo-Olu. According to these reports, Sanwo-Olu is really closer to the Senator than he is to her formidable hubby. Reasons for this abound. Senator Remi Tinubu is reportedly the brains behind Sanwo-Olu’s gubernatorial nomination and candidature. She, it was who played the seamstress behind the curtains and tied the needed clout and congresses required for Sanwo-Olu’s ascension. As a result, Sanwo-Olu’s victory in the gubernatorial elections is bound to Senator Remi’s efforts and schema. This fact has been indicated as the motive behind Sanwo-Olu’s veneration of the Senator. Not only does he owe her gratitude for his nomination – if the stories are to be believed – but also the quality of powers that she employed to his side. Now a stakeholder in Lagos State affairs as a result of her contributions, Senator Remi Tinubu enjoys a continuously advantageous camaraderie with Sanwo-Olu.