By Onuminya Innocent in Sokoto Sokoto state governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Monday commiserated with the people and government of Kaduna state over the bandit attacks that claimed the lives of 51 people in four villages in Igabi local government area of the state last week. A statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity Muhammad Bello said Tambuwal, who ed the high powered delegation of more than 15 highly placed Sokoto citizens on the visit, expressed sadness over the incident and other similar attacks in the state. Unknown bandits had a couple of days ago attacked the communities, setting houses ablaze and killing scores of people. Gov. Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna state who expressed appreciation for the visit, said he was “overwhelmed by the caliber of people, many of them my senior brothers.” Special prayers led by the representative of the Sokoto Sultanate Council, Alhaji Kabiru Usman, (Sarkin Yakin Binji), were offered for the repose of the souls of the deceased and for peace to reign in the state. At Lugard House, premises of the Kaduna State House of Assembly (KDHA), Tambuwal while consoling the people and government of the state, also congratulated the Speaker, Hon. Yusuf Tanimu Zailani, on his new position. He said “I came to visit upon the request of my friend, the Speaker, with whom we met last about 20 years ago. “I congratulate him on his ascension to the position of Speaker and condoled the people and government of Kaduna state over the Igabi incident and others that have occurred in the state in the past,” Tambuwal said. Receiving the delegates, the Speaker of KDHA, Hon. Zailani expressed gratitude to the governor, saying the visit is a home coming as Sokoto and Kaduna share a historical link, particularly, the House’s edifice, four of its kind in the world, constructed under the leadership of the late Sir Ahmadu Bello, Sardauna of Sokoto. The Sokoto state delegation include the Speaker of the state House of Assembly (SOHA), Rt. Hon. Aminu Muhammad Achida; Alhaji Ahmad Muhammad Gusau, former Deputy Governor of Sokoto state, Senator Garba Ila Gada, Senator Ladan Shuni and Alhaji Ibrahim Milgoma, the state Chairman of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). Other delegates were Alhaji Mukhtar Bello Maigona, Chairman of the state Pilgrims Welfare Agency, two members of the House of Representatives, Hon. Muhammad Saidu Bargaja and Hon. Abubakar Audu as well as a former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Kabiru Marafa Achida. Also in the delegation were: Alhaji Mukhtar Umar Magori, the Chief of Staff, Government House, Sokoto, Alhaji Isah Bajini, Commissioner for Information, Col. Garba Moyi (Rtd), Commissioner for Security, Engr. Bello Suleiman, former Minister of Power, Alhaji Ibrahim Magaji Gusau, Special Adviser, Political Affairs to the Governor and Alhaji Abdullahi Ibrahim Adiya.