James Sowole in Akure The Lagos Peace Movement (LPM) Saturday explained the roles of citizens in the battle against Coronavirus (COVID-19), urging over 21 million residents of Lagos to support the government to stop the deadly disease from spreading. Concerned by the confirmation of Corona virus case in Lagos, Ondo State Government advised residents of the state not to panic over the situation stating that the authority has mapped out actions on it. Besides, the management of Saipem Contracting Nigeria Limited has debunked social media reports that the Italian infected by coronavirus in Nigeria visited the firm’s office in Banana Island, Lagos and that the firm is now subject to lockdown. In a statement he issued saturday, LPM’s Convener, Mr. Adekunle Adeosun urged the residents of the state to join forces with the state government to stop the virus from spreading. LPM, a pan-Lagos non-governmental organisation, urged the residents to assist the state government in its efforts at curbing the disease by making use of the telephone numbers of designated centres and people to call in cases of suspected victims of the dreaded virus. The group, also, promised to assist by incorporating the state government’s efforts into its advocacy nationwide, saying the group’s members across the federation and beyond had been mandated to call the designated lines in the event of any strange behaviour by anybody around. The group, therefore commended the state governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his cabinet members for their swift reaction to the treatment of the first victim of the disease. While giving Sanwo-Olu and his team of competent hands pats on the back for being a pace setter in any emergency situations, the rights organisation expressed the delight that, “this administration has taken the lead in its lifesaving efforts.” LPM commended the Lagos State government on its swift reaction towards the treatment of the first victim of the disease. It noted that the Sanwo-Olu administration was truly prepared for the global menace, noting that only a responsible and responsive government could put such medical equipment on ground to safeguard its people.” The group added that Sanwo-Olu’s ‘prevention is better than cure’ initiative, coupled with the free flow of information to the people had given the residents more confidence in his administration. The statement said the governor “has lived up to his bidding as the ‘Incident Commander’ of the fight against the disease.” Meanwhile, Ondo State Commissioner for Health, Dr Wahab Adegbenro in a statement, said the government had convened an emergency multi- sectoral stakeholders meeting of the State Epidemic Preparedness and Response Committee to quickly map out line of actions, actions points and necessary precautions to be taken to prevent the outbreak in the state. While appealing to residents not to panic, Adegbenro appealed to them to take certain actions which could help in the situation. He urged the residents to maintain hygienic environmental and health enhancing practices such as constant hard washing. The commissioner also told them to avoid being in crowded gatherings and to report any case of fever and flu to the nearest hospital, advising residents to avoid self-medication. In a statement by Saipem’s Managing Director, Mr. Walter Peviani Friday, the firm said the Italian had never been to its premises, adding that it is continuing with its operations normally. Peviani said: “As confirmed by the Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Obafemi Hamzat, on national television channels, this person visited Ewekoro in Ogun State before he fell ill and brought to Lagos where he was diagnosed with the n-COVID19. “In addition, other press briefings and statement by the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and the Minister of Health, Dr. E. Osagie Ehanire, have confirmed the itinerary of the patient.”