Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Following the single case of COVID-19 in Ekiti State, the state House of Assembly has moved a motion urging the state Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, to close all schools and other public institutions in the state to prevent the spread of the pandemic. It also announced the suspension of legislative activities indefinitely as parts of measure to contain the spread of the dreadly virus. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, had last Wednesday confirmed that a victim had been discovered in the state and had been quarantined at the isolation centre. The decision to restrict visitors’ movement to the Assembly complex was also taken at yesterday plenary presided over by the Speaker, Hon. Funminiyi Afuye. The Chairman of the Assembly Committee on Health, Hon. Teju Okuyiga, under matter of urgent public importance, informed the Assembly of one case of COVID-19 found in the state. Okuyiga then called for precautionary measures to contain further spread of the diseases. Other members who spoke on the matter were Hon. Yemisi Ayokunle, Hon. Gboyega Aribisogan and Hon. Abiodun Fawekun. They suggested that aside the Assembly’s complex, public places like schools should be shut down, at least for now. Acceding to the request, the Speaker said: “Activities at the Ekiti State House of Assembly is hereby suspended as suggested by members until further notice when the tension about the dread coronavirus is doused.” He, however, allayed the fear of residents, saying though the COVID-19 is real, the state government is on top of the situation. In a statement he signed in Ado Ekiti, ASSUS Chairman, Sola Adigun, noted that such would prevent the close group interactions which could hasten the spread of the virus among very active adolescents in Secondary Schools. Meanwhile, the Academic Staff Union of Secondary Schools (ASUSS) has called on the state government to close down schools with immediate effect to prevent further spread of the disease.