By Olaoluwakitan Babatunde The prevailing circumstances have called on many across the African continent to adjust to new ways of living and working. Many are required to spend more time at home with their loved ones, and MultiChoice Group (MCG) remains committed to supporting its customers with the best available programming to keep families informed and entertained. To ensure the most up-to-date information about COVID-19, Africa’s most-loved storyteller will provide broadened access to credible information at this time, by making news channels more widely available across the continent. From today we have included CNN (channel 401), Euronews (channel 414), BBC Word News (channel 400), Aljazeera (channel 406) and Africanews (channel 417), as well as the many other local DStv news channels in markets. GOtv customers will also get the brand-new channel Africanews (channel 47) available on GOtv Max and Jolli. While BBC News (channel 41) and CNN (channel 42) will be open to GOtv Max, Jolli and Confam customers. “We have been in constant communication with health authorities such as the World Health Organisation, and we will be rolling out Africa-wide public service announcements on COVID-19. It is important that all of us take heed of the announcements and advice from trusted experts so that we can look after our own health and that of our loved ones,” says MultiChoice Nigeria’s Chief Executive Officer, John Ugbe The video entertainment company is not only expanding its content offering for news, but there will also be more kids shows, movies and curated sports content. We are making revision accessible for lessons from our educational channel Mindset (DStv Channel 319) available on catch up; while also adding educational channels Da Vinci (DStv 318 and GOtv 66) until the end of May to help keep young minds stimulated and engaged. PBS packed with thrilling content opens to DStv Access (DStv Channel 313) and GOtv Jolli (GOtv Channel 65). “In light of the disruptions to the school year in some markets, we are also working to provide access to the best available educational content, to help keep young minds stimulated and engaged,” continues Ugbe. Live sports has suffered a notable impact globally as a result of sporting federations correctly prioritising the safety of players and fans alike, by adhering to accepted measures to limit the spread of COVID-19. MCG has acquired the best award-winning sport documentaries from around the globe and produced thematic channels for sports fans to relive the greatest sporting moments of all time. In addition, we have opened SS1 to DStv Compact plus and Compact, this channel will thrill customers with past sport stories that have created some of sports most magical moments. Also opened is SS7 which will showcase Motorsport action to DStv Access. While GOtv customers will have access to GOtv Select 4 opened to compact customers to Re-Live the Premier league. GOtv Select 5 which will showcase past WWE content will also be opened to Compact and Family customers. It is important to note that due care has been taken to ensure that employees, customers, production houses and suppliers also have limited risk of exposure. A number of sports, film and production crews may not be able to continue working, but customers will be updated of any programme schedules and changes in the coming days and weeks. “We are taking great care for our staff during this time and have encouraged those that are able to work from home to do so,” Ugbe adds. “In light of this we have advised our customers that there may be a delay in our ability to attend to customer queries. However, we have a number of self-service and online platforms available, and we will do our best to sort out any issues they may have, timeously.” There will be regular updates from various sections of the business providing further details around our commitment to ensure we continue to provide the best video entertainment even during these challenging times.