Those behind removal intoxicated by power, says Shehu Sani Kano group vows to challenge dethronement Sanusi paying for his lies against Jonathan, says Omokri The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has called for calm and understanding over the removal of the Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II. The Chairman of the Advocates for United Kano, Alhaji Bashir Tofa, has however vowed that his group will challenge the dethronement of Sanusi, insisting that the Ganduje’s action was illegal and unfortunate. However, a former social media aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Mr. Reno Omokri, has mocked the deposed emir over his ordeal, saying that the former emir was paying for his lies against Jonathan. This is coming as a former lawmaker representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Senator Shehu Sani, yesterday said those behind the dethronement of the Emir of Kano, Sanusi displayed “the intolerance and toxicity of the liquor of power”. The ACF National Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Muhammad Ibrahim, made the appeal in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday in Kaduna. Ibrahim said the ACF had earlier intervened in the feud between the Kano State Government and Kano Emirate Council in its efforts to ensure an amicable resolution of the issues between them. He, however, said with the turn of events, “ACF has no alternative than to call on the people of Kano Emirate to remain calm and show understanding of the situation”. NAN reported that Kano State Government dethroned Sanusi earlier on Monday and announced the appointment of Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero as the new Emir of Kano. A former lawmaker representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Senator Shehu Sani, yesterday said those behind the dethronement of the Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, displayed “the intolerance and toxicity of the liquor of power”. Sani said the Northern Elders Forum had waded into the misunderstanding between the deposed Emir and the Kano State governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, but failed to make the two parties reach a truce. He tweeted, “The removal of Emir Sanusi represents the incompatibility of the crown and conscience, the consequences of dissent against established norms and the heavy price of holding principles in our north. It also revealed the intolerance and toxicity of the liquor of power.” “The Northern Elders Peace keeping force led by General Abdulsalami (Abubakar) sent to enforce a ceasefire and restore peace in the Civil war between the Forces of the Emir and that of the governor failed in their mission; And they quietly withdrew unannounced, leaving behind an escalation. “If Governor Tambuwal has not been re-elected, the relatively mildly outspoken Sultan too could have been sacked.” In another development, the Chairman of the Advocates for United Kano, Alhaji Bashir Tofa, has vowed that his group will challenge the dethronement of Sanusi. Tofa, a presidential candidate of the National Republican Convention (NRC) in the June 12, 1993 presidential election, vowed that his group would sustain its judicial challenge to what he described as the unlawful law passed by the Kano House of Assembly under which the governor purportedly removed the emir. “In particular we have vowed to sustain our judicial challenge to the unlawful law passed by the Kano House of Assembly under which the governor purportedly removed the emir.” He urged the people of the state to remain calm and not resort to violence, saying his group would continue to challenge “every brazen act of illegality, by lawful and peaceful means, perpetrated by the government of Kano State.” Meanwhile, a former social media aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Omokri, has mocked Sanusi, over his ordeal. In a post on Instagram, Omokri said, “Last year I said everyone who falsely accused former President Jonathan would pay for it. Sanusi Lamido Sanusi is a manipulative individual who deliberately lied against ex-President Jonathan to forestall him and facilitate the election of President Muhammadu Buhari. “Well, he has his Buhari. Is he happy? He should find time to read Galatians 6:7-8. One by one, the God that Jonathan kneels to pray to will vindicate him.”