James Sowole in Akure Ondo State-owned Adekunle Ajasin University in Akungba Akoko (AAUA) has directed that the First Semester university-wide GST and ENT CBT examinations for 2019/2020 academic session earlier scheduled for today (March 9 to 12) be postponed till further notice. The postponement of the examination, according to the university’s authorities, was in mourning of the death of two students of the institution within one week. The university, in a condolence message, expressed shock on the death of the students in the course of the week. The deceased students are: Miss Temitope Patience Ayedun, a 200 Level of the Department of Educational Management and Okakunle Matthew Olayinka a 300 Level of the Department of Biochemistry. The university said Ayedun was admitted at the University Health Centre and the medical personnel tried their best to manage her until she was referred to the Federal Medical Centre in Owo where she was intensively managed before she died on March 5. “The news of the death of Mr. Olakunle Matthew Olayinka, a 300 Level student of the Department of Biochemistry, following wounds from gunshot by unidentified gunmen, was received last night, Friday, 6th March, 2020, after the medical personnel at the University Health Centre put up spirited efforts to stabilise him. “The security agents are still on the trail of the assailants for apprehension,” AAUA said. The university management under the leadership of the Acting Vice Chancellor, Prof. Olugbenga E. Ige, commiserated with the families of the deceased, the entire students and the university community on these sad events, praying God to console the families and the entire university community. The university, in a statement, said the management has beefed up security within and outside the campus to forestall recurrence. While expressing the condolence of the university management, all students were enjoined to remain calm and go about their lawful activities without panic as authorities, in conjunction with the security agencies, are on top of the situation