By Victor Ogunje The European Union in partnership with the World Bank and the Ekiti State Government has promised to enhance citizens’ access to potable water through affordable and sustainable commercialisation policy in the water sanitation sector in the state. EU Policy Expert in Ekiti State, Mr. Alaba Ogunsajo, disclosed this in Ado Ekiti at the weekend at a one-day retreat for stakeholders in the Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) sector with special focus on commercialisation and regularisation of water services in the state. Ogunsajo stated that the EU is committed to water supply and sanitation sector reform programme three (WSSSRP 111) to solve shortage of safe water through effective commercialisation and regularisation policy that can guarantee access to safe water in the state for revenue earning. According to him, “The EU intervention in water sanitation with focus on improving water governance through effective policies, laws, and institutional framework is meant to improve service delivery; enhance access to safe, clean and sustainable drinking water when the water reticulation from dams gets to customers in Gbonyin and Ekiti West Local Government Areas being used as pilot council areas. “The target is to ensure water sanitation services in urban, small towns and in the rural communities for the good health of our people. It will also help the open defecation policy of government among others.” Also, the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Biodun Oyebanji, said the state Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, would continue to implement programmes and policies that would not only ensure the provision of potable water to the Ekiti people, but would also imbibe principles that would guarantee the maintenance and sustenance of the process. Oyebanji, represented by the Commissioner for Environment, Hon. Olugbenga Agbeyo, noted that it has become imperative to deploy an approach that would increase access to safe water services delivery without necessarily increasing financial burden on the state government and the water consumers while ensuring sustainability. Commending the EU and World Bank intervention’s under the water and sanitation sector reform in the state, Oyebanji said the retreat was also aimed at sensitising stakeholders on the likely principle of commercialisation and guidelines for economic benefit of water service