By Bennett Oghifo As a way of giving back to customers this coming Easter season, Enyo Retailing and Supply Limited, a customer focused and technology driven oil retailing company is partnering with Automobile Western Limited for a month-long promo activation tagged ‘March to Easter with Real Deal.’ The ‘March into Easter with the Real Deal Promo’ is scheduled to run from March 16 – April 16, 2020. Under this promo, individuals who purchase the all-new Honda HR-V SUV are entitled to a free N50,000 Enyo Velox card. The partnership agreement was signed by both parties on March 17th in a press conference held at Enyo filling Station Stillwaters, 4th roundabout Lekki Epe Expessway, Lekki, Lagos. The all new HR-V is an entry level SUV from the Honda Range which combines luxury and affordability. Apart from other features known with a modern functional SUV, the Hi-Rider Revolutionary vehicle (HR-V) is designed with a magic seat to change the norm. It is a 5 seater vehicle proudly assembled in Nigeria with keen adherence to the Honda global production standard during the assembly process. The vehicle which ordinarily should have been N11.262million can be gotten for N10.9million with other freebies. Enyo Corporate Development Lead, Abayomi Alimi said, the partnership is the coming together of brand with similar value. The initiator of the partnership is immaterial but what is important is that we are a forward looking organisation, reputable brand where Honda flag can be hoisted and the consumers get positive perception that brand the has built for itself. Though, we are just three years in the market, we have built a reputable image for ourselves and we are known for that. We have also been able to sight our stations in 84 centers with presence in 19 states including Abuja within three years. In addition, we have sighted our stations in very strategic locations where every other brand want to be. So they see in us the value that they like and in the same vein whenever we do our partnership, some of the things we look out for, the boxes were ticked by Honda.” According to him, “Honda is also a reputable organization, certainly one of the leaders in their industry backed by Japanese technology. Some of their vehicles are assembled in Nigeria. It was very easy when the opportunity came to partner in order to provide a reliable, convenient and safe fueling solutions to the new cars they are selling. When they came to us, we presented to them the vilux product which is what they are using today.” On who is benefitting more from the partnership, he said, “we do all of this for the customer. If you know anything about the industry, it is extremely low in margin and when you have low margin, it is not the time to give away. We understand that there is an era where the customer has been taken for granted in our industry; what we are trying to do right now is to say thank you to our customers even beyond the partnership we are having with Honda today.” Explaining how customers gain from the Real Deal promo, Alimi said, “When you go on our four court, there is a cash bag scheme that we do. When you buy fuel, all you need to do is to give your phone number. It is called ‘Enyo thank you.’ And once you give your phone number, before you leave, you will get a text message that says you have accumulated so and so point. Those points are cash. You can accumulate and use them as exchange for products as you go on our four courts. For us, customers gain and it is a culture we are bringing into the company not just during the yuletide season. It is a consistent customer appreciation culture that we have in-house.” When asked whether they have Honda HR-V stand in all their stations across the country, he said, ‘we, are only able to do it in two outlets today; it may be in more stations tomorrow. Now, it is at Enyo stillwaters here, 4th roundabout and Enyo Olowo Eko, third roundabout by Nike art gallery. Also speaking at the event, Honda Sales and Marketing Lead, Remi Adams said, “We are driven by the passion to make customers happy and satisfied. Basically, any buyer of Honda is already our family and we are confident of the quality and services derived from our vehicles. The partnership with Enyo is a way of easing the burden of customers and rejigs our commitment. “We know the culture of servicing is not up to the level expected in Nigeria, we want to inculcate the habit of going to standard workshop. This is why we are sacrificing what should be our profit. We are given an opportunity to our customers to ensure their vehicles are well serviced. Any vehicles bought from us have three years warranty which is subject to servicing at our workshop nationwide. Having seen the challenges of some customers not wanting to service their vehicles at accredited workshop, we want to encourage them to do so.” Adams said, “for us, we are not really benefitting; we are trying to make the customer happy. And the other part of fueling, we are trying to show how delighted we are when you buy into our products. Of course, Enyo provides the petrol, Honda will not but we are willing to offer the service of the vehicle at free cost. So, when you buy Honda HR-V, you have two years free service plus N50, 000 and Enyo fuel voucher card. Just to let you know, we are doing this not to make profit. If you buy into Honda HR-V and any of our models, you are buying into Honda family. “On why Enyo was chosen for the partnership, he said,” Enyo is purely an indigenous company and one of the easiest way to push the Nigerian brand is to go through the Nigeria company. I suppose you are aware that Honda HR-V is made in Nigeria. We have other models like Pilot, CRV and Accord but HR-V was launched last year. We are happy to have this model because it is made in Nigeria.”