BRIEFLY Honeywell Flour Mills has said it is partnering with the Lagos State government in its bid to feed 200,000 low-income families during the COVID-19 crisis. “The COVID-19 crisis reminds us of how intertwined we all are and presents an opportunity for every member of society to show responsibility and take action for the greater good,” the company said in a statement yesterday. Honeywell Flour Mills believes strongly in the power of community and in line with our mission of using enterprise to make our world better, they said. “We fully support the Lagos State Government’s objective of implementing social distancing policies across the State. We also recognise the unfortunate challenge this restriction of movement will place on many Lagosians, who need to leave their homes daily to earn an income to feed their families The company said, “We will be supporting the Lagos State Government’s goal of feeding 200,000 low-income families by providing customised Honeywell Flour Mills food packs. These packs, containing various food products, will feed one family for one month. “We commend the leadership of Lagos State in spearheading the efforts to help alleviate the burdens of the less fortunate amongst us caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. “Our thoughts and prayers are with everyone at this trying time. Let us continue to work together to stay safe and fight as one to win the battle against this global pandemic.” Kwara Considers Palliative Measures Kwara State Government yesterday said that, it is considering palliative measures to support the poorest of the poor of the state over the shutting down of social and economic activities in the state to curb the spread of Covid-19 to the state and North Central region of the country. The government however commended the people of the state for the excellent compliance with the partial lockdown of movement that commenced in the state on Friday. Speaking with journalists in Ilorin yesterday, the Chairman, Technical Committee of Covid-19 and state deputy governor, Mr. Kayode Alabi however said that, “the committee will soon brief the public accordingly on it but it is important to state that this period calls for personal and collective sacrifice to save all of us.” He said that, “Government will continue to do everything to support and protect the people.
The government repeats that our best shot in this time of global health emergency is to stop this virus from entering our state. There is no alternative to that. This is why we appeal to the people of Kwara State to continue to comply as we do not want to bury any Kwaran on account of this pandemic.” Alabi added that, “the compliance with the restrictions that began early Friday showed people’s understanding of the magnitude of the threat and appreciation of government’s efforts to enforce social distancing and protect the people. “We specifically commended the traditional and religious institutions, transport unions and opinion moulders for standing with the government’s efforts”. Alabi however clarified that fuel stations and banks have not been shut as they are in the same category with food and drug merchants which are critical for survival. He warned against arbitrary hike in the price of essential commodities saying that,“The humanity is faced with a serious threat from a virus that has infected hundreds of thousands and killed thousands other worldwide. and at the least we need is exploitative attitude from suppliers and merchants of essential commodities at this critical time.” Peace Corps on Humanitarian Services The Peace Corps of Nigeria (PCN) has declared its readiness to partner with the federal and states governments in the fight against the spread of the dreaded Corona virus ravaging the country by offering free humanitarian services to the government and people of Nigeria. National Commandant of the PCN, Ambassador Dickson Akoh, who made the declaration yesterday in Abuja said the corps currently boast of about 187,000 members and volunteers with requisite training and dedication in nation building, who can make a difference at this critical period of the country. Akoh in addition said the gesture was in line with the corps’ cardinal function of serving as a reservoir and spring-board of man-power for volunteerism as well as involving in social and community services in times of needs. “The Peace Corps of Nigeria currently has membership strength of 187,000 youths comprising of regular members and Volunteers with network of branches in the 36 States of the Federation, including Federal Capital Territory. With the initial orientation imparted on members and Volunteers, during their trainings coupled with the strict discipline which they observed, they are more strategically positioned and equipped as needed manpower to enter into synergy with Government at all levels in terms of providing voluntary and humanitarian services to forestall further escalation of the COVID-19 pandemic. While we commend the Federal and various State Governments for the steps taken so far to curb this menace from further spread, it is thus our patriotic concern and commitment that we wish to register our willingness and readiness to partner with the Federal Government and the various State Government, through the Federal/States Ministries of Health and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in the following areas: Creating awareness at the grass root level on the dangers of the dreaded COVID-19 and measures to forestall its spread; Deploy members of the Organisation to public places such as markets, motor parks, recreational centres, offices to distribute hand sanitizers, nose masks, etc; and Distribution of relief materials to be provided by the Federal or State Governments as well as corporate bodies and spirited individuals should there be a total lockdown”, the National Commandant said. Uzodinma Mourns Nwoga Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State has expressed shock over the recent passing of respected Imo elder statesman and politician of repute, Chief Innocent D. Nwoga. Chief Nwoga, former Minister of Establishment and Management Services in the Interim National Government led by Ernest Shonekan died on Wednesday, March 25 at the age of 86. Governor Uzodinma regretted that Chief Nwoga, a pioneer chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State as well as former chairman of Imo Elders Forum died when his fatherly counsel was most needed. “It is with shock that I have received the sad news of the death of one of Imo State’s respected elder statesman, Chief I.D. Nwoga. With his passing, Imo has lost one of her best and renowned sons. His sterling leadership quality, uprightness and sense of accommodation and humour will be sorely missed by all,” the Governor said. He described late Nwoga as a devout Christian and great counselor to those who come in contact with him. I, therefore, extend my sincere condolences to the entire Nwoga family, the people of Ahiazu Mbaise Local Government Area, Imo State and Nigerians in general for this great loss,” said the Governor. Governor Uzodinma prayed God to grant the soul of Chief Nwoga a peaceful repose and the family he has left behind, including the larger family of Imo State, the fortitude to bear the loss. The late Nwoga was an old boy of Stella Maris College, Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Eruiyawo Concepts In celebrating a decade in Nigeria’s event industry space, the Creative Director of Eruiyawo Concepts, Omowunmi Abayomi-Johnson, has successfully trained about a dozen women in the art and craft of traditional wedding gift wrapping and presentation business. The master class which was a hands on practical class for 3 days held recently in Ikeja , Lagos . This training was an eye opener to the women participants who were impacted with a lot of creative skills by the convener who did not hold back any useful information that would aid their success in that line of business. According to the Eruiyawo concepts company boss, she said she found great fulfilment sharing her wealth of experience in the business with those who participated in the class as a way of commemorating the brand’s decade anniversary which was last year December and also to impact the knowledge of what it takes to be successful in this line of business. According to her, the training had three other facilitators, Funmi Adubi of Rolyne designs who exposed the students to the art of box making and paper crafts for presentations. Splendour Ighorodje of Splendour Arts Shop who took the crepe paper rose class did justice to it by igniting the creative spark in each of the students seeing the outcome of their own trial-concept which looked so real. And then Coach Bisi Sotunde of the Busybee Academy whose session on marketing and business strategy was insightful. Omowunmi Abayomi-Johnson said the training was not just limited to the classroom, as part of the package, all participants were privileged to have on-site experience at two different venues of her clients as they were involved in all the process of execution. The first one was the geometric rustic and greenry themed presentation which was well interpreted. At the end of the three day class, each participants received their certificates. ‘Embrace Conflict Resolution’ The Kaduna State Police Command have asked residents of the state to adopt alternative dispute measures to resolve minor issues and avoid trooping to police stations at a time the country is battling with a public health emergency. In a statement yesterday in Kaduna, spokesman of the command, Mohammed Jalige, the command enjoined members of the public to strictly adhere to all rules on social distancing order as the command would not hesitate to deal decisively with any person or group of persons who attempt to violate the order. The statement said the command, has commenced the enforcement of the 24 hour curfew imposed by the Kaduna State Government on Thursday, warning that anyone found violating the curfew, would be dealt with. The statement said the Kaduna State police commissioner, Mr. Mohammed Muri has directed all officers and men of the command to ensure that the curfew is fully complied with in order to maintain social safety within their areas of responsibilities. “The command advised the general public to adopt the alternative dispute resolution measures in solving minor infringement rather than trooping into police stations at a time when the country is battling with a public health emergency. The command emergency numbers 07039675856, 08075391105 will be available on 24 hour basis in case of any distress and a team of officers will be readily available to respond to any of such calls promptly. Furthermore, the command enjoins the good people of Kaduna State to strictly adhere to all rules on social distancing order as the Command would not hesitate to deal decisively with any person or group of persons who attempt to violate this order within the ambit of the law. The commissioner of police Kaduna state U.M. Muri call on all the citizens of Kaduna State to be law abiding by complying with the social distancing and restriction orders on social or religious gathering so as to enable the state government contain or minimize the impact of the infectious COVID-19 epidemic” the statement said.