By Bola A. Akinterinwa In a constantly changing world of globalisation, particularly with climate change, the worst scenarios can no longer be ruled out. With excessive heat, excessive flooding and rising sea level, increasing international migration, coupled with declining interest in regional integration, lifestyle has to be adjusted in order to cope with the challenges coming with the new changes. It means therefore that the coping with the constant changes will be reactive in the main, on the one hand, but temporarily preventive, on the other. The anti-coronavirus measures undertaken by many countries of the world clearly lend credence to this observation. Without doubt, coronavirus is a new virus. It is a new development and a new threat to global peace and security. It is as deadly as the Ebola virus. Natural disasters, like the Tsunami saga, cannot be compared to it, in terms of its deadly implications. The seriousness of coronavirus, as a problem, is currently the major challenge for most countries of the world, and particularly, for the World Health Organisation (WHO), which is currently most preoccupied with it. Many countries are also reacting to the problem. First, one major problem with reactive measures, as good as they may be, is that a lot of damage is often done before lasting measures are put in place. In other words, when there is an outbreak of a virus, for instance, Government is always caught unawares. Being caught unawares means running helter-skelter before getting to see more clearly on what to decide to be the best way forward. In Africa, for instance, Senegal is leading in the number of coronavirus victims in West Africa with more than 30 casualties, ditto for Egypt in the North Africa with over 70 victims. South Africa has the highest number of victims in Southern Africa, with 62 people. In fact, thirty-nine countries in Africa have infected victims and the number of total victims is nearing 500. The point being made with this increasing number of victims is to note that the affected countries have been caught unawares, they are currently unable to promptly contain the pandemic, and they do not have the means of their own to solve the problem. Without doubt, they have taken some measures, but the measures have not nipped the spread of the virus in the bud. Second, and more often than not, the immediate reactive measures taken might be good to start with, but hardly good enough for lasting purposes. One relevant illustration is that of the WHO, which believed at a point in time that yellow fever had belonged to the dust bin of history, but only to wake up later and discover its recurrence. When it was believed that yellow fever had been permanently eradicated, there was, for a reasonable length of time, no insistence on the provision of international yellow vaccination cards for international travellers or for issuance of visas. Today, the story is different. Emphasis is increasingly being placed again on yellow fever vaccination before a traveller can be granted entry into many countries of the world. In the context of the coronavirus, it reportedly originated from the Wuhan province of China. To argue to the contrary may be difficult to prove. However, we submit here that there is nothing to suggest that the origin of coronavirus is China on the basis of one critical submission by scientists that, unlike in the case of Ebola virus, an individual might have been infected for some time before its symptomatic manifestations are shown. In the case of Ebola virus, it is the contrary. If we admit of this scientific observation, the possibility of an already coronavirus-infected person coming from outside of the Wuhan province, which is believed to be the first host of the virus, cannot be ruled out. The carrier of the virus might have come from within China or from outside China. It is the mere fact of China playing host to the highest number of confirmed cases of coronavirus and death that it is easily and generally believed that the virus must have originated from China. The manner many countries of the world are going about trying to contain it raises the biblical dimensions to the pandemic and intellectual limitations to the prescribed measures. The Bible and Anti-COVID-19 Measures
COVID-19 can be explained from many perspectives. The virus can be very deadly but powerful countries are always much interested in viruses like the COVID-19 for purposes of biological and chemical weapons. From the perspectives of international law, both biological and chemical weapons are prohibited. However, countries that do have the means have always secretly developed whatever is considered necessary to ensure national security. This observation can be seen from the angle of the killing of an Iranian statesman in Iraq as a pre-emptive measure allegedly to ensure the safety of Americans. Such killing is unlawful but it is defended on the altar of legitimate self-defence. Biblically, in the book of Isaiah, in chapter 26, verse 20, we are told about God’s message to his people that they should hide themselves in order to keep themselves safe because of God’s anger. As provided in the King James version, verse 20 says: ‘come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee; hide thyself as it were for a little moment, until the indignation be over past.’ In other words, there is a situation of indignation about which God is not happy and which the people of God are required to hide themselves for a little moment. Perhaps more relevantly, verse 21 of chapter 26 of the same book of Isaiah says ‘for behold, the Lord cometh out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity; the earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.’ In other words, is the emergence of COVID-19 an act of God? Is COVID-19 meant to punish ‘the inhabitants of the earth? Is it a fulfilment of God’s words that the earth ‘shall disclose her blood’? If the COVID-19 is a manifestation of the word of God, all the various measures undertaken by Member States of the international community cannot but constitute a non-solution. The interesting point at this juncture is also that many countries have also resorted into prayers, begging God to have mercy. And true enough, Donald Trump’s America is one of the first nations to set aside a special day of prayers to God. In the words of Donald Trump in his tweets, ‘it is my great honor to declare Sunday, March 15th (2020) as a National Day of Prayer. We are a country that, throughout our history, has looked to God for protection and strength in times like these. No matter where you may be, I encourage you to turn towards prayer in an act of faith. Together, we will easily prevail.’ Donald Trump’s encouragement is quite good and worthy of emulation. However, will God answer any prayer by someone who is not ready to repent, or who repents only to re-engage in the same sinful acts? Particularly in Nigeria, there are prayer warriors who pray day and night against societal evils, and yet, the impact on Nigeria is yet to be felt and the reason cannot be far-fetched: unending engagement in preventable iniquities which irritate God who has made it clear that the smallest in sin cannot stand in His sight. What we also do know is that God readily forgives if there is intention or evidence of repentance and intention not to continue to engage in further sinful acts. The story of Nigerian prayer warriors and Christians, in general, cannot be said to have been good enough to warrant God’s favour.
The point being made here is not only, stricto sensu, the issue of genesis or originating place of the virus, but also the meaninglessness of whatever measures are being taken by various countries to combat the virus, if we admit of the fact that COVID-19 is a manifestation of the provisions of verses 20 and 21 of Isaiah, chapter 26. For instance, the general preventive trend is to ask people to stay at home. Unlike in the United States where several public and private institutions have been closed, and yet, people are required to work from home thanks to the internet, in Nigeria, offices, schools, etc are closed down but the opportunity for worker to work from home is not there. Is closing offices and schools down really the solution?
In terms of plain truth, for as long as a carrier of the virus can come from an unknown destination, when the virus might have not been detected, necessarily makes a nonsense of any placement of restriction or ban on outgoing and incoming flights from and to some countries. Many countries, including Nigeria, adopted the policy of banning flights from some perceived COVID-19 infected countries. However, the ban, though, has its merit from the perspective that it can assist in more effectively controlling the spread of the virus, especially when containment capacity has not been achieved, what is required is having enough and sustainable capacity to contain the virus at the domestic level and not simply preventing additional inflow of carriers of the virus into the country. The already infected people, though few in number, are more dangerous than those arriving in the country. Most of the people quarantined are those who have voluntarily surrendered themselves. Another truth of the matter is that coronavirus has been carried to different nooks and crannies of the regions of the world. There are currently not less than 160 countries with confirmed cases of the virus. More than 7000 infected victims have died. Besides, the rate at which the virus is also being spread is not only alarming, but has also compelled the WHO not only to rename the virus, from coronavirus to COVID-19, but also to re-designate it, from ‘epidemic’ to ‘pandemic.’ The implications of these decisions cannot be far-fetched. One resultant effect is the need to adopt a more effective measure to contain the pandemic and measures have been variously adopted internationally. However, the measures, varying from one country to the other, have been majorly reactive and not generally programmatic. They are panicky and not designed to be preventive. In other words, the aspect of possible re-occurrence in the foreseeable future, after a temporary solution might have been found, and also the possibility of a new and more deadly virus also emerging as a result of the trending climate change, appears to have been ignored, which is most unfortunate. This is why it has become necessary to go beyond the limitations of the reactive and containment methods of COVID-19. At this juncture, an overview of the global efforts at containment of the virus is necessary in light of the aforementioned biblical injunction. Anti-COVID-19 Strategies and Limitations
Global anti-COVID-19 strategies are more reactive than preventive. First, the general public is advised to be cautious and more hygienic: covering the mouth with disposable tissues when sneezing or coughing, avoiding contacts with people having symptoms of coughing, sneezing or having fever, avoiding hugging and handshaking, regular washing of hand with soap, avoiding social groups, staying indoor if one has the symptoms of the virus, and promptly seeking medical attention. All these measures of public enlightenment are given in the belief that COVID-19 is very contagious. And without doubt, it really is.
In this regard, the WHO has encouraged all its Member States to enlighten their citizens, as well as take other necessary steps to deal with the pandemic. The European Union made it clear on March 10, 2020 that it would come up with a ‘Corona Response Investment Initiative (CRII) that would be aimed at enhancing health care system, SMEs, labour markets and other vulnerable parts of the EU Member States’ economies. The President of the European Parliament, Mr. David Sassoli, has asked EU Member States to ‘stop limiting supplies of medical equipment within the EU and stop taking unilateral action to prevent free movement.’ In other words, whether or not an individual is a carrier of COVID-19, the principle of free movement is not expected to be tampered with. In the words of Mr. Sassoli, ‘the challenges presented by the rapid spread of COVID-19 show that cooperation and solidarity are needed now, more than ever. No effort will be spared to protect people’s health and help those in need. We need to ensure adequate production and supply of medical equipment, so (that) it is available wherever it is needed in the EU. This virus does not respect any border, attempting to fight it alone will fail.’ More significantly, he noted, ‘solidarity, mutual trust and sincere cooperation should guide our actions to fight this pandemic.’ His point of emphasis is the need for solidarity and collective response to the challenge. The European Commission has pledged to direct about Euro 37 billion under the Cohesion policy to the war against COVID-19 crisis. If, at the level of the European Union, emphasis is placed on collective approach to the problem, how are regional organisations like the ECOWAS or the African Union confronting the problem? The approach of the United States is also quite interesting. The Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDCP) engaged more in an investigation into the outbreak of the pandemic. The objective is to be able keep the general public abreast of developments. According to the CDCP, COVID-19 can be spread in many ways: it mainly spreads from person-to-person, close contact within six feet, respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes. In this regard, the droplets can land in the mouths or on the nose of people staying nearby. COVID-19 is also spread when one touches a contaminated surface and then one touches his own mouth, nose, or eyes. The CDCP also drew attention to the symptoms of the virus in the following 2 to 14 days after infection: fever, cough and shortness of breath. There are also the emergency symptoms: persistent pain or pressure in the chest, new confusion or inability to arouse, bluish lips or face, as well as difficulty in breathing or shortness of breath. The US government has earmarked billions of US dollars for the fight against the virus. It has also restricted movement of flights from Nigeria, China, United Kingdom, etc. At the level of Nigeria, for instance, the Government of Nigeria has similarly placed a ban on flights from the United Kingdom, United States, China and many other countries which have been acknowledged to have been exposed to the virus. In fact, Nigeria has embarked on some reactive and preventive measures. The reactive measures include the provision of hand sanitizers in its Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs); establishment of test laboratory centres and Presidential Task Force to investigate further and deal with the pandemic; activation of Emergency Operations Centres (EOC), and adoption of the policy of airport screening of all passengers, especially at the international terminals; adoption of the policy of screening also the Very Important Persons (VIPs); and provision of about N1 billion on monitoring and controlling the pandemic. As regards Nigeria’s preventive measures, they include the placing of ban on official trips abroad; cancellation or postponement of the National Sport Festival; postponement of the Open University convocation; closure of schools and colleges; and Nigeria’s request for international support. What is particularly noteworthy about Nigeria’s efforts is the revelation by the Health Minister, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, that Government had succeeded with the introduction of genome sequencing in the fight against COVID-19. As explained by the Minister, Nigerian scientists, led by those in the Nigerian Institute of Medical Research, Yaba Lagos, had successfully performed ‘the genome sequencing of the coronavirus strain that the index case brought to Nigeria sometime ago and the scientists proved it to match with the coronavirus circulating in Italy and Wuhan, China.’ More importantly, Dr. Ehanire also has it that ‘it is the first time this sequencing virus has been performed in Africa; the result has been shared with international authorities in China and the Director General of the WHO has extended congratulations to the Nigerian scientists for this achievement.’ With this Nigerian feat, can that be enough to contain the pandemic? How is the related to the biblical injunction refferred to above? What really is the impact of religious lifestyle on national development and security? Without scintilla of doubt, all the various measures taken so far by many governments to contain the COVID-19 can be good, but never good enough without the people first seeking repentance. The United States has prayed. The African Catholic Bishops are on record to have also specially composed a prayer to be recited by all Catholics against the COVID-19. More interestingly, the Bishops advised that people should ‘pray for those infected and affected by this disease and for a quick end to the scourge of the coronavirus.’ This advice is good as another uncommon measure in addressing the problems of the virus. The mere fact that Prophet Isaiah already gave an inkling of what is currently happening, policy makers should therefore not simply limit their efforts at containment to reactive and preventive measures but should also seek a permanent solution by seeking the face of God.