By Martins Ifijeh The federal government has announced five new cases of COVID-19 in Lagos, Oyo and the Federal Capital Territory, bringing the total number of cases in the country to 27. Making this known on its Twitter handle Sunday, @NCDCgov, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said three of the cases were from Lagos, while one each from Oyo State and the FCT. It said: “The three cases from Lagos had travel history to high risk countries in the last seven days. They have all been placed under isolation and treatment. “Breaking down these figures mean Lagos has recorded 19 cases, Abuja four, Ogun two, Oyo one and Ekiti one. “Of the total 27 cases, two have been discharged. We are working closely with the affected states, including the FCT identify and follow up with contacts. If you have returned to Nigeria from any country in the last 14 days, please stay in self-isolation,” it said. Meanwhile, the Lagos State Government through the Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi has given further details on the new cases from the state, noting that one of the three cases was a 51-year-old Briton who arrived Nigeria on March 8 via BA75 flight. He said: “The second patient is a Nigerian on connecting flight KL0582 London Amsterdam / KL0587 Amsterdam to Lagos. He arrived in Nigeria March 14. “The third case is a 65-year-old citizen of the United States of America who arrived in Lagos about six weeks ago,” Abayomi added. Meanwhile the Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, who doubles as the Chairman, State COVID-19 Task Force, said the case from the state had been placed under isolation and treatment. He said: “The COVID-19 confirmation test for the suspected case at Bodija has come back positive. The result was released at 17:35 PM of March 21, 2020. Oyo State Public Health Officials are collaborating with the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan’s team on the case. “A follow up on the Ekiti COVID-19 case revealed that the person was picked up directly from Lagos Airport to a private apartment in Ona Ara Local Government Area. “The Health Authorities have contacted the family concerned and the community has been alerted for intensified contact tracing and self-isolation of identified close contacts. “The information given that he stayed in some hotels in Ibadan has been found to be false.” He also stated that another returnee from Texas, USA, had also been identified at Oluyole Local Government Area, adding that she has been kept in self-isolation with close monitoring by the State Epidemiological Team. “All recent returnees are again urged to identify themselves to ministry officials and self-isolate for 14 days. “We have released funds for: Activation of Emergency Operation Centre at the Ministry of Health. “Establishment of Diagnostic Centre for screening of Coronavirus and other related infectious diseases to be stationed at the UCH, Ibadan. “Equipping of the newly designated Oyo State Infectious Disease Centre at Olodo that has the capacity for over 100 cases,” he added. He also released telephone helplines of the state Ministry of health to be contacted in case of any suspected case around the state. The numbers are, “Oyo State Ministry of Health Helplines: 08038210122/ 08023229267/ 08073431342.