In celebrating this year’s World Seep Day, Mouka has urged Nigerians to develop a healthy sleep habit while also educating them on how to go about same. This is to further spread knowledge and shed more light on the theme of this year’s ‘World Seep Day, ‘‘Better Sleep, Better Life, Better Planet”. Speaking at the well attended event, Chief Executive Officer of Mouka, Raymond Murphy, stressed the importance of healthy sleep to overall physical and mental wellness, adding that a quality sleep is non -negotiable. Quoting reports, he said: “It is more difficult to commit to memory, a piece of new information after a night of inadequate or disturbed sleep. Studies have shown that there is a link between adequate sleep and concentration, cognition and productivity.” He added that in addition to the company’s innovative range of products to aid quality sleep, the firm being a responsible company deemed it right to follow suit with the global body in raising awareness on the importance of the day. This include educating the masses on sleep disorder and how to prevent it as well as reducing the burden of sleep disorder that threatens health and quality of life. In her lecture, Vice President of Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy (NSP), Nnenna Chigbo, explained that good quality sleep consists of 7-9 hours,which among other things, reduces labour-related and road transport accidents as well as improves circadian clock which ultimately reduces premature ageing. The physiotherapist also offered tips on how to imbibe healthy sleep culture and urged Nigerians to go for Mouka brand as endorsed by the society. He said: “Avoid heavy spicy or sugary foods four hours before bedtime; exercise regularly but not right before bed; use comfortable bedding; find a comfortable setting for sleeping and keep the room well ventilated; block out all distracting noise and eliminate as much light as possible, reserve the bed for sleep and sex”. Also speaking at the event, a representative of Nigeria Association of Orthopedic Manual Therapists (NAOMT), Dr. Ayodele Onigbinde strongly encouraged Nigerians, either with special needs or not to opt for orthopaedic mattresses to get the best of sleep. “This helps to minimise body pressure and designed to offer a firmer sleep surface. It also ensures correct spinal alignment that helps alleviate stress on the spine and reduces back pain. Orthopedic mattress also aid the adoption of correct posture for sleep, promoting healthier blood circulation throughout the night.” He added that orthopedic mattress offers optimum push-back for perfect sleeping position, reduces tossing and turning to wake up and spreads body weight to prevent the build-up of pressure points, particularly in the neck, back and hips.