By John Shiklam The Kaduna State government has announced restrictions on religious activities and large gatherings in the state so as to curtail the spread of the dreaded coronavirus pandemic. A statement on Friday in Kaduna by Muyiwa Adekeye, spokesman for Governor Nasir el-Rufai, said although, so far, no case of the disease has been reported in the state, the government has a duty to work with all leaders and residents to jointly ensure that everything is done to reduce the chances of the disease taking root and spreading. The statement advised imams not to hold Juma’at services Friday (today), stressing that the government is taking a cue from Islamic countries like Saudi Arabia. “In this regard, the government is taking cue from the decision of the government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the cradle of Islam not to hold such prayers in the two Holy Mosques in Makkah and Madina. “In many Muslim-majority countries like Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the UAE, members of the public are encouraged to pray at home, and not congregate as is the practice in normal times. “The Kaduna State government hereby directs that all daily congregational prayers should be suspended until the coronavirus situation is clearly contained,” the statement said. The statement also urged Christians to “learn from the experience of many Christian-majority countries like Italy, France and Germany to suspend church services”. “Pastors as well as congregants are expected to abide by public health advice and avoid gatherings in churches. Other means of worship and fellowship should be adopted in much smaller numbers of not more than 10 persons, for now,” the statement advised. The statement noted that “public health expert advice is that large gatherings of more than 10 persons are not advisable at this point, and any assembly of more than 50 persons are therefore prohibited in Kaduna State until further notice”. Adekeye said: “As part of the required containment measures, the state government has already announced the closure of all schools – all nursery and primary schools, secondary schools and all tertiary institutions — effective Monday, 23rd March 2020. “Accordingly, the state government has directed the immediate closure of the campuses of Kaduna State University (KASU), Nuhu Bamalli Polytechnic, College of Education, Gidan Waya and of Nursing and Midwifery for 30 days in the first instance.” The statement explained that these measures to contain the spread of coronavirus also means that social gatherings in parties, bars, restaurants, night clubs, public parks and such places are suspended until further notice. “Government urges all citizens, including religious and community leaders, to do their duty in supporting these measures which will help in significantly protecting the larger society from the negative impacts of Covid-19,” the statement said.