Vanessa Obioha writes that despite the fear of COVID-19, the seventh edition of the AMVCAs had more trumps than flops The last time the AMVCA held in 2018, there was no COVID-19 or Naira Marley. People were not worried about the Marlians and their immoral culture or scared of contacting the deadly disease that has thrown countries in disarray. But on Saturday, March 14 when the awards returned after a one-year break, the fear of the global pandemic was palpable. Celebrities who graced the event seemed to have two things in mind: steal the spotlight and stay safe. But the latter was an arduous task for many. In a society where friends are greeted with hugs and handshakes, the fear of COVID-19 called for more creative ways to exchange greetings. There were the wave, the hip bump, elbow bump, foot bump and namaste greeting. There were times when the camaraderie was so infectious that the celebrities threw caution out of the window. However, the organisers ensured that there were an abundance of hand sanitisers and tissues. Though Nigeria is not badly hit by the virus which has led to postponement of major sporting and entertainment events across the globe, conscious efforts were taken by the organisers MultiChoice Nigeria to ensure that the environment was safe for guests. The screening started from the pedestrian gate of Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island where the glamorous event took place. Before they could access the main hall of the event, they were once again screened and handed sanitisers and tissues. At the main ceremony, COVID-19 had its moment. Big Brother Naija former contestant Sir Dee coughed during the presentation of the Best Indigenous film in Hausa. He told the audience not to be scared that he drank sanitisers all day. The seventh edition of the AMVCAs returned with more trumps than flops. Despite its abrupt end, the show cemented its position as the most glamorous event that celebrates the continent’s creative talents in the film and TV industry. The show didn’t veer too far from its usual script. There were the opening cultural performances, the witty monologues, the emotional first-timers speeches, the tributes to lost souls, and of course, the musical performances. This year, 2Baba got the glamorous guests on their feet with his medley. The major difference at this year’s event was the cheerful audience. Unlike the last edition where laughter was served in little doses, the Nollywood stars who graced the event were an enthusiastic mix. They cheered for winners and gave a standing ovation for those who deserved it. They actively participated in the show. Perhaps, the hosts IK Osakioduwa and Amina Abdi Ramar’s wit and charm did the magic. Both media personalities exuded great chemistry on stage. Though Amina was quite a fast talker, she managed to match the speed of IK’s wit. Their exuberance set the pace for the night such that when IK returned to perform a monologue with singer Cobhams Asuquo, they left many in stitches. From addressing issues of xenophobia, the duo played with homophones such as fraud and Frodd, a former Big Brother Naija contestant. They also yabbed AY and his ‘Merry Men’ film while wondering why the anti-graft agency, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) didn’t lock up singer Naira Marley to avoid the Marlian culture. The woke youths on Twitter were not spared, the duo advised them to hug a transformer. Serving these jokes with music, IK couldn’t resist the temptation to extol praises on his girlfriend for seven years of hosting the show, actress Genevieve Nnaji. He talked about his affection for her while praising Nollywood veterans. For IK, two groups of people fall into this category. There were the Kanayo.O. Kanayo, Nkem Owoh and Pete Edochie who have aged with time, and the other actors like “Kate Henshaw (with her six pack), Richard Mofe-Damijo, Monalisa Chinda (with her fresh face) and the chief of all Ramsey Nouah,” who don’t look their age. He told the audience that Nouah finally revealed the secret of his youthful look in the movie ‘Living in Bondage: Breaking Free’. Calling the movie Nouah’s autobiography, he said “we all know why they look so young. They drink blood.” He would later serenade Jemima Osunde who came on stage with Peruzzi’s ‘Majesty’, saying that “she is fine like 12 people.” IK’s mimicry and sarcasm arguably, was the major highlight of the show. Also, the introduction of the Best Dressed guests added to the frenzy. Celebrities arrived very early at the awards to take part in the competition which was judged by the public. Donning glittering and elegant attires, they strutted the red carpet, posed in the photo booth which was later uploaded to the Instagram page of the awards for the public to judge. There were stunning pieces from Sharon Ooja, Venita Akpofure, Ifu Ennada who wore a COVID-19 inspired ensemble, Denola Grey, and Mike Edwards and Mercy Eke who took home the fashion awards for the night. The Big Brother Naija ‘Pepper Dem’ season winner Eke got the audience buzzing when she came to receive her award. Donning a high slit piece that exposed her rear part, Eke’s dedication of the award to the Supreme One fetched her loud murmurs. The audience were not buying her religious speech. In their estimation, God will not approve her dress. Of the 31 awards given out at this year’s event, ‘Living in Bondage’, took home the most awards. The movie which earned 11 nominations took home seven awards including Best Overall Movie and Best Director for Nouah and Steve Gukas. It is the first AMVCA win for Nouah who was absent at the event. The sequel to the classic 1992 movie also fetched a first time win for Larry Gaaga who composed the soundtrack of the movie. Charles Okpaleke, the executive producer of the movie and media personality Ebuka Obi-Uchendu received the award on his behalf. An excited Ebuka told the audience that he and Gaaga hailed from Okija, a town in Anambra state. “I’m so proud of my heritage. Nobody considered Gaaga an artiste but he has changed the game significantly,” he enthused. ‘Elevator Baby’ which earned six nominations fetched Timini Egbuson his first AMVCA in the Best Actor in a Drama, Movie/TV series category. His sister Dakore Egbuson-Akande presented the award to him. To pundits, having Dakore announce the winner in the category that was open for public voting made the award suspicious. Dakore acted like she knew the winner before she opened the envelope. Nevertheless, her brother’s win was well applauded. The movie also fetched Toyin Abraham a Best Actress in a Drama trophy. It was also a big night for Funke Akindele-Bello who won in the Best Actress in a Comedy category. The elated actress reminded the excited crowd she is winning in that category for the fourth time. ‘God Calling’, one of the movies with the most nominations only took home two awards: Best Lighting Designer and Best Make-up. Quite a few expressed their disappointment that Kemi Adetiba’s film, ‘King of Boys’ didn’t win any award despite having seven nominations. For the first time, a male actor received the Trailblazer award. Swanky JKA, the ‘Living in Bondage’ actor took home the award. He praised God before regaling the crowd that he had written his acceptance speech in 2014. He was however cut off before concluding his speech. It was a moment of pride for veteran TV producer Peter Igho who took home the Industry Merit Award. He was accompanied by his son Tosin Igho who also won the award for Best Picture Editor. The night was also marked with emotional moments. Actress Beverly Naya who won the Best Documentary for her film ‘Skin’ dedicated her award to “every little girl that has a dream. They said let’s stop Beverly Naya but here I am today.” CJ Obasi who won Best Writer alongside Nicole Asinugo for ‘Living in Bondage’, was represented by his mother who danced joyously on stage. Asinugo said she had always dreamed of the moment. Comedian Funny Bone couldn’t express his delight on stage after winning the Best Actor in a Comedy. He was halfway in his speech when he told the audience that he recently lost his mother. Choked with emotions, he left the stage in tears. Clinching the Best Indigenous Film in Igbo language, Victor Iyke said he was unprepared for a win but came in his full regalia. He dedicated the award to his mother. For first time winners of the new MultiChoice Talent Factory film award, words couldn’t express how they felt. The East Africa Academy Hub took home the award for their movie ‘Promises’. With the AMVCAs this year, the organisers gave fans a show to revel in. Viewers can watch the repeat this weekend on the various Africa Magic channels on DStv and GOtv platforms.