Kemi Olaitan in Ibadan The Deputy National Chairman (South) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abiola Ajimobi, has set up a reconciliation team to reconcile aggrieved members of the party in Oyo State. The committee to be headed by a former governor of the state, Chief Adebayo Alao-Akala, has 16 other members with Prince Gbade Lana as secretary.
Ajimobi in a statement made available to THISDAY last night, said the reconciliation team would ensure genuine reconciliation and the repositioning of the party in the state. On the crisis in the party and the ongoing reconciliation, Ajimobi acknowledged that everyone contributed to the success of the party in 2011 and 2015 elections, and should, therefore, accept that they also contributed to the 2019 setback. According to him, ‘’I acknowledged that we all contributed to the success of the party in the past, particularly in 2011 and 2015 elections respectively, conversely, if we have setback in 2019, I believe it is honourable to accept that we all contributed directly or indirectly accordingly.’’ The deputy national chairman also apologised for mistakes he might have also made, urging other members to recognise their failings too.
“As humans, we are not infallible; I accept my mistakes to which I tender my unreserved apology. In the same spirit, others who might have similarly made mistakes, I accept their apologies,” he said. He enjoined party members to forgive one another, adding that the APC Oyo State family had been offered a unique opportunity once again to rebuild, reinvigorate, reposition and consolidate for the challenges ahead. “Let us seize this moment for the overall benefit of our party and our people. Let selfless and meaningful service to humanity be our watchword,’’ he said.
Other members of the committee include: Alhaji Kamar Ajisafe, (Ibadan Less City); Pa Akin Ojebode, (Oyo); Alhaji Laide Abass, (Ibarapa Zone); Pa Adeleke, Oke Ogun I, Prof Dibu Ojerinde, (Oke Ogun II); Senator Teslim Folarin (Representing Oyo State Caucus in the Senate); Hon. Segun Odebunmi, (Representing the House of Representatives Caucus); Hon. Asimiyu Alarape, (State House of Assembly); Hon. Mojeed Olaoya (State Party Secretary); Mr. Isiaka Areokuta (Youth Leader); Mrs. Mabel Williams, (Women Leader); Chief S.M. Akindele (Oyo Central); Prince Adefisoye Adekanye (Oyo South) and Rasaq Arikewuyo (Oyo North).