All is now set for the season two of the FCV Gladiator Camp – a football clinic that emphasizes on football and academics, as Grange School and Aduvie International School in Lagos and Abuja, will host the one-week football clinic. According to the Coordinator of the camp, Oluseyi Oyebode, the maiden edition in 2019 took place with the endorsement of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). This year’s edition will hold in Lagos and Abuja with Ikeja-based Grange School hosting the Lagos camp on April 5 to 10 while Abuja-based Aduvie International School will stage the Abuja camp on April 12 to 17. The FCV Gladiator Camp is designed to offer international standard football training to school children and their coaches while creating opportunities for talented football players to combine football with academics abroad. The camp is organized by Dynaspro Sports Promotion Advanta Interactive Ltd in partnership with UK’s first private football academy, FCV International Football Academy. Top coaches from UK are expected to handle proceeding at the camp while school coaches would also be trained by experts. “We want to continue from what we did last year and this is part of the vision of the camp which is to ensure that we ensure continuity to give the students the chance to update their knowledge. We are not just focusing on the students; we also want to ensure that those that will handle them in their various schools are acquainted with the basics and modern trend in football. Our aim is to ensure that we train the students on the basics of football as well as emphasis the need for them to marry their football skills with their academics,” Oyebode said. For the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of FCV International Football Academy, Graham Stammer, the camp would provide opportunities for Nigerians to top class academy in UK. “We know this will help them with their football development as well as provide an education and we can confirm that we will be providing four players from these camps with the chance to attend our Academy in the UK,” he said. The camp is open to students between age six and 18 years while outstanding players in the two camps (Lagos and Abuja) will be recognised.