*Lockdown alone can’t tackle outbreak, WHO warns Nigeria, others By Martins Ifijeh Death toll from COVID-19 has jumped to 13, 799, with 322, 278 persons confirmed to be positive with the virus in 189 countries across six continents, the World Health Organisation (WHO) records show. This is even as the world health body has warned Nigeria and 185 other countries affected that only lockdown approach can’t defeat the growing spread of the disease. Although an estimated 96,000 people have so far recovered from the disease worldwide, at least 10, 000 people are still in critical condition, a situation that predicts more fatalities will be recorded. One of the major countries most hit by the latest death rate from the disease is Spain, which has recorded 374 deaths and 3, 107 confirmed cases within the last 24 hours, bringing the total deaths and cases in the country to 1756 and 28, 603 respectively. Echoing measures taken by Italy – Europe’s hardest hit country – the Spanish government declared a state of emergency on Saturday, ordering the closure of all non-essential shops as well as bars, restaurants, cafes, football grounds and cinemas. Residents have been ordered to stay at home, allowed out only to buy food and medicine or travel to work, health centres or banks. Travel is also allowed for those looking after the elderly or dependents. Save for a handful of people walking their dogs or picking up groceries, most streets in Madrid were empty. Although the WHO and Worldometrics have not released figures yet for Italy’s burden since last night, the country Sunday recorded over 800 deaths in one single day. its death figures have surpassed that of China. China has 81,054 confirmed cases with 3, 261 deaths, while Italy has 51, 578 confirmed cases and 4, 825 deaths, the highest fatality by any country since the disease started. Although China’s cases have declined with no recorded deaths since the last three days, it was not so lucky Sunday as it recorded 46 new cases and six deaths between Saturday and Sunday. Of the 46 new cases, only one was recorded as community spread, while the remaining 45 were exported cases. The country said since it has made progress in the fight against the outbreak, it would now send health experts to Italy and Spain to help tackle the deadly virus. To halt import of the spread from other countries, it has now started diverting all international flights due to arrive in Beijing starting Monday another airport where passengers will undergo virus screening, according to government agencies Sunday. International flights that were scheduled to arrive in the capital will land instead at one of 12 airports. Passengers who clear screening will then be permitted to re-board the plane, which will then fly to Beijing, the regulator said. Among the new cases recorded in China, record 14 were in the financial hub of Shanghai and 13 were in Beijing, a decline from 21 the previous day. In Canada, death toll has climbed by 46 per cent. Officials in the country announced that the total number of COVID-19 deaths jumped to 19, an increase of 46 percent. The total number of infected cases rose from 1,099 to 1,328, according to John Hopkins University. Afghanistan Sunday recorded its first death, according to the country’s health ministry. The Spokesman of the Ministry of Public Health, Wahidullah Mayar said a 40-year-old man died in the Northern Balkh province. Afghanistan has 34 confirmed cases of the virus and there are fears its vulnerable health system, devastated by years of war, would be overwhelmed by an outbreak.