By Alex Enumah The Court of Appeal in Abuja, on Friday adjourned indefinitely proceedings in the appeal filed by the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Adams Oshiomhole, challenging his suspension from office. Justice Danlami Senchi of an Abuja High Court, had on March 4 ordered Oshiomhole to step aside as Chairman of the APC pending the hearing and determination of a suit seeking his removal from office on account of his suspension at his ward level. But the order of Justice Senchi was however halted by the Court of Appeal on Monday March 16, 2020. A three-man panel of the court led by Justice Abubakar Yahaya had ordered a stay of execution of the order and consequently, restrained the respondents in the appeal from proceeding to act or take any further steps with regards to the ruling of the FCT High Court. The court ruled that the order would remain binding pending the hearing of Oshiomhole’s motion for interlocutory injunction slated for Friday. But when the matter came up on Friday, a clerk of the court announced that the court could not sit as scheduled, adding that a new date will be communicated to the parties. Meanwhile, an aggrieved member of the party and the Director General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON), Chief Osita Okechukwu, has insisted that Oshiomhole is no longer a valid member of the party. Okechukwu, who spoke after the court session, stated that the main issue remains whether a man suspended by his ward executive can preside over same association? “The truth is that Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is no longer validly a member of APC. Don’t forget that Comrade validated the suspension of Barrister Inua Abdulkadir, Vice-Chairman, North West, by his ward. It’s trite in law that one cannot approbate and re-approbate. Like Super King he glossed over his suspension and our great party’s constitution is scant with time, for it allows only seven days to appeal. “As of now, permit me to state that one was impressed with Mr President’s intervention, which is fatherly. Secondly, I was also enthused by Comrade Adams Oshimohole’s statement that, ‘I have learnt my lesson. I have asked everyone, whatever they consider to be my shortcomings, for forgiveness and they have forgiven me. I was humbled yesterday at the court. “We all factually need peace. However, as a student of Political Science and one who devoted time to study dictatorship, I am sceptical and bidding my time to believe hook line and sinker Comrade Oshiohmole,” the DG said. He said as a Christian, he may have forgiven Oshiomhole but not all have, particularly those who holds the opinion that Oshiomhole cannot change. “If he changes for good that will be an exception and we will glorify Almighty God that the virus has been curbed,” h said. According to him, one event which will soonest test Comrade’s commitment to the statement cited above, in the next few days or weeks, is the resolution of Edo State APC’s imbroglio. “Albeit , without being cynical, Pa Bisi Akande’s Committee cannot resolve it without his openness. The way and manner he spearheads the reconciliation with his brethren in Edo State, before the arrival of the Akande Committee will tell us whether the Osho-virus is receding. In Edo, he holds the peace banner and crisis flag,” Okechukwu stated.