Laleye Dipo in Minna The Niger State government has assured internally displaced persons (IDPs) of adequate welfare and protection of their lives and property despite the dwindling resources of government. Following bandits’ attacks on some communities in the state, the state government had opened IDP camps at Kuta in Shiroro Local Government Area, Kagara in Rafi Local Government Area and Sarkinpawa in Munya Local Government Area. The Director General of the Niger State Emergency Management Agency (NSEMA), Alhaji Ibrahim Ahmed Inga, who gave the assurance during an interactive session with newsmen in Minna at the weekend, said three local governments — Shiroro, Rafi and Munya — were most hit by bandits’ attacks, resulting in no fewer than 1,200 displaced people. “The IDP camps located in Kagara in Rafi Local Government and the one situated in Kuta, Shiroro Local Government Areas as well as at Sarkinpawa in Munya LGA of the state are the busiest as a result of the persistent banditry attacks of communities in these local government areas. “Presently, no fewer than about 1,187 IDPs are in the camp at Kuta, headquarters of Shiroro Local Government, while about 92 IDPs are also in the camp at Kagara in Rafi Local Government Area of the state. We also have some of them (IDPs) that are taking refuge in private homes provided by private individuals in two local government areas that are even more than those that were established in the camps,” Inga said. The Director General explained that most of the IDPs are women because some of the men have found their ways out of the camps. He said further that government has been committing huge sums of money to take care of the IDPs, adding that apart from their personal wares and those of their children “the government of Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello has provided food items, medicament and other essentials to the IDPs”. Inga described the banditry attacks on the rural communities in parts of the state “as a very serious tragedy”, conceding however that at the moment, some IDPs have started returning to their respective homes in the communities following relative return of normalcy in the earlier troubled areas”. “Government will encourage the IDPs to return to their ancestral homes to start lives anew especially now that the new farming season is about to start,” Inga said.