Sunday Ehigiator With a vision to help women embrace all-natural skincare and develop a glowing, sparkling, healthy and clean skin, Body Organics has launched ‘Skinfood Watermelon and Vitamin C Masque’, also known as Hydration Glow. At the recently held launch in Lagos state, the founder, Body Organics, Viola Ogbunude noted that the face masque comprises of real watermelon extracts, and vitamins A, C and B6, which are capable of transforming skin, rejuvenating and diminishing signs of aging, developing glowing skins, and helping the body relax among others. “It is packed with nourishing vitamins, this ‘Skinfood Watermelon and Vitamin C masque’ is not to be missed. Body organics as always, leaves out all the chemicals and fluff to bring you this hydrating, brightening and balance masque. “Watermelon is rich in vitamins A, C and B6 and this mask is chock-full of real watermelon extract. The masque’ by Body Organics; Watermelon and Vitamin C masque’ brings you these benefits It Rejuvenates and diminishes signs of aging, fewer free radicals, or unstable atoms that damage the cells. It gives you a lifted, and brighter look as a result of the vitamin C. The also a well-hydrated, healthier, and smoother skin. “An added bonus is that watermelon is ideal for all skin types, even the most sensitive skin. Since it mostly consists of water, the fruit is a low-risk addition to your skincare routine and absolutely non-comedogenic. Whether you have oily, sensitive or acne-prone skin, watermelon can likely help.” Speaking on the compositions of the face masque, Ogbunude said, “our mission is to help women embrace all-natural skincare, and this is where the Skinfood Watermelon and Vitamin C masque comes handy. The product is nature based and made from certified organic ingredients such as, purified water, glycerin, citrullus lanatus (Watermelon) fruit extract, certified-organic glycerin, certified-organic lavandula, angustifolia (lavendar), flower, leaf, and stem extracts, certified-organic citrus limon (lemon) peel extract, certified-organic camellia sinensis leaf extract, certified-organic pyrus malus (apple) fruit extract, certified-organic spirulina maxima extract, certified-organic humulus lupulus (hops) extract, certified-organic cucumis sativus (cucumber) fruit extract, certified-organic calendula officinalis flower extract, ascorbic acid (vitamin C), eclipta prostrata extract, melia azadirachta leaf extract, and moringa pterygosperma seed oil.” On benefits face masques generally adds to the body and it’s usage, she said “It leaves you feeling revitalized in no time at all. For the best results, aim to use the masque two to three times per week. Masques are an effective way to cleanse the skin of dirt and toxins. By drawing out impurities and detoxing the face and neck, they can help to improve your health and appearance in real time. “Face masques are therapeutic in nature. The Skinfood Watermelon and Vitamin C masque is infused with lavender and other relaxing, natural ingredients that will keep you healthy and serene. Face masques allow women to keep their skin clear and free from bacteria. Hence natural, topical products like the Skinfood Watermelon and Vitamin C masque stimulate blood circulation and help to expand the blood vessels. This results in softer skin with a radiant, glowing look. “And all our products can easily be orders on www.bodyorganics.com”