The Nigerian Army has killed three Boko Haram fighters during a gun battle with troops at the Nigerian Army base in Kopa village, Madagali, Adamawa State. The insurgents were said to have attacked the location of the troops of the 271Tank Battalion and abducted three women from the community. The Nigerian Army Operations Media Coordinator, Col Aminu Iliyasu, said in a statement on Tuesday the women had been rescued. Iliyasu said in a similar operation in the Bama Local Government Area of Borno State 25 people abducted by the hoodlums were rescued by troops of the 152 Battalion and 21 Special Armoured Brigade deployed in Bama. He said two Boko Haram flags, two AK-47 rifles, two AK-47 rifle magazines loaded with 10 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, 310 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition and 173 rounds of 7.62mm were recovered from the insurgents. “On February 25, 2020, troops of the 144 Battalion deployed in the Madagali LGA of Adamawa State decimated Boko Haram criminals who attempted to infiltrate a defensive location occupied by troops. In the aftermath of the encounter, the troops neutralised three of the marauding criminals while many others are believed to have escaped with gunshot wounds. “Also, in continuation of their coordinated clearance operations, troops cleared Gava – Chinene Road and the surrounding villages where they made contact with Boko Haram criminals. However, the cowards fled, abandoning a woman and her daughter who were hitherto held captive by the insurgents. “Preliminary investigation reveals that the rescued captives had been in the Boko Haram captivity for two years.” The military further disclosed that on February 24 they arrested two Boko Haram fighters – Abu Abor, 61, and Abubakar Hassan, 51, both Chadian nationals. In a related development, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, yesterday said that the Nigerian Army would employ the use of simulation technologies to tackle the emerging security challenges and asymmetric threats facing the country.