With oil benchmark slashed to $30 and 2020 budget trimmed by N1.5trillion, it is obvious that the monthly revenue from the Federal Account Allocation Committee, which most states of the federation depend on for survival will not flow as usual this year. And since only a few of them are aggressive enough to generate revenue internally, the onus lies on them to prepare for the economic downturn that is very close by, writes Bamidele Famoofo Review Government at all levels- that is- federal, state and local, shared about N7.04trillion from the Federal Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) in 2019. As usual, the federal government got the lion’s share of the total revenue, which amounted to N2.93trillion. The 36 states and FCT received N2.47trillion while the local government councils shared N1.64trillion. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) disclosed that the highest net allocation to the FG were disbursed in the months of July and September with N275.03billion and N266.49billion respectively while the lower amounts of N219.51billion and N223.28billion were received in May and March, respectively. The total net FAAC allocation to state governments stood at N2.47trillion. Delta and Akwa Ibom States received the highest allocation of N219.28billion and N171.98billion respectively in 2019 while Osun and Cross River States received the least allocation of N24.22billion and N36.31billion respectively. Breakdown of the total net FAAC allocation to local governments councils showed that out of the N1.64trillion shared in 2019, Lagos and Kano States received the highest allocation of N104.97billion and N92.16billion respectively in 2019 while Bayelsa and Gombe States received N18.99billion and N23.80billion, respectively. A New Order But that trend may not likely continue in 2020 based on the impact of the declining oil price triggered by the trending Coronavirus pandemic. Just last week, the nation’s economic think-tank constituted by the Presidential Advisory Council warned about dire economic consequences for Nigeria, if the raging coronavirus infection was not contained as quickly as possible. The council, which is chaired by Prof. Doyin Salami, met with the President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja. It said one of the immediate consequences, as shown in the crash of crude oil prices, was slower economic growth, adding that confidence in the economy would also be eroded. The council, which urged the president to consider immediate cuts in the budget, observed that ultimately, Nigeria risked receding into another recession if concrete measures were not evolved to stabilise its economy. The council added that global oil glut, rise in unemployment, depletion of foreign reserves and trade imbalance were other consequences. Special Assistant to the President on Media, Femi Adesina, after the closed-door meeting, said these were among the observations the council made at the session. The statement said, “Noting that many countries around the world may go into economic recession, the PEAC advocated hard work for Nigeria to keep its head above the waters.” In swift response to the realities of the falling oil price, the federal government has announced plans to cut down N1.5trillion from the N10.59trillion 2020 budget signed into law by the President in December 2019. The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, stated this while addressing journalists after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting on Wednesday. Ahmed said the cut from capital expenditure stood at 20 per cent while recurrent expenditure would incur 25 per cent. It will be recalled that the minister had on March 5 gave the hint on the possibility of seeking downward review of the 2020 budget through the National Assembly because of the current drop in the price of crude oil due to the coronavirus pandemic. The National Assembly had passed the budget at $57 per barrel oil benchmark price, but the global crude oil prices are now currently oscillating between $25 and $30. On Friday, the federal government said N285billion had so far been released out of N2.45trillion budgeted for capital expenditure in the 2020 budget targeted at financing prioritised and critical infrastructure agencies. The government added that about $220million had been also released as of penultimate Tuesday as counterpart funding for railway projects. As part of measures to contain a looming economic crisis and its negative impact on the people, the state oil firm, NNPC, has since announced a reduction in petrol price from N145 per litre to N125. “Mr. President also approved that we should cut down on the size of the federally funded upstream projects of the petroleum sector. The reason being we want to be able to get more revenue, by less reduction from NNPC. The reduction of the crude oil price from the $57 per barrel that we budgeted to $30 means that we are going to get so much less revenue, almost 45 per cent less than we planned and because of that we have to amend a lot of projections in the budget as well as in EMTEF to reflect our current realities,” the minister said. “The president also agreed that we should do a scenario to reflect what the actual position will be with a $30 crude oil price, that is we were to anticipate what will be the worst case scenario and we’ve worked on that scenario and this scenario necessitates that quite a number of expenditures needed to be cut down, even as we review how we can enhance revenues that are not directly affected by the crude oil price decline.” Other Measures Ahmed explained that the government was also looking at enhancing production to make sure that at the minimum, the 2.18 million barrels that is in the budget as production volume is realised. She added that the NNPC has directives to that effect. “We also need to adjust Customs revenue, which has been budgeted for at N1.5 trillion, but we are adjusting it downwards because we anticipate that trade volumes will reduce and once trade volumes reduce, Customs revenue will be significantly impacted as a result. “We also have approvals to reduce the projected revenue from privatisation proceeds by as much as 50 per cent because, again, with the slowdown in economic activities, we are anticipating that the sale of independent power plants might not be fully realised as planned for in the budget.” On expenditure, she said the president has approved that we should cut down the capital expenditure budgeted by 20 per cent across ministries, departments and agencies and also a 25 per cent cut of all government owned enterprises. “By this measure, we expect that the operating surpluses that will accrue to the federation will increase because when their operational expenditure reduces, the operating surpluses that they remit to the treasury will also increase significantly,” she said. Other Policy Matters According to the minister, the government has resolved to stop recruitment, except for essential services such as security and health services. It has also resolved to restore and comply by the Civil Service Retirement Regulations. “We’ve been asked also to review the modalities for the implementation of the social investment programme and finally to review the non-essential tax waivers that we are implementing right now to cut down on our tax expenditure so that we can realise more revenue,” the minister added. “These measures mean that we are going to re-engage with the National Assembly and we’ll be doing that shortly, may be from today or tomorrow, to revise the EMTEF as well as to revise the 2020 budget.” Whither the States So far, no state government has declared any strategy to contain the impact of the expected shortfall of revenue to them, even as internally generated revenue, which will accrue to them in 2020 is also expected to drop, owing to declining economic activities. Another major source of revenue for the States is IGR, which is low compared to what they share from the central purse. Analysts have therefore warned that the states may be heading for a disaster if they do nothing urgently to come up with initiatives that would boost their revenues independent of FAAC. The recent figures released by the NBS for IGR showed that the 36 states and FCT generated N986.29billion in nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to N692.49billion recorded in half year ended June 30, 2019. In the third quarter of 2019, IGR stood at N293.80billion compared to N392.38billion recorded in Q2 2019. “This indicates a negative growth of 25.12 per cent quarter on quarter. Seven states recorded growth in IGR while thirty states and the FCT recorded decline in IGR at the end of Q3 2019. Lagos state has the highest internally generated revenue with N297.09billion recorded, closely followed by Rivers with N107.03billion while Yobe State recorded the least internally generated revenue,” NBS stated.