Dike Onwuamaeze A former Governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi has called for a legislation that will prohibit a government from owing suppliers and contractors more than 90 days. Obi, pointed out the government indebtedness to suppliers had caused the death of many businesses, including small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs). “Part of responsibility of governance is good and clear planning that will enable leaders to know their cash flow and what it can or cannot support at all times,” Obi said. He made this call recently in Enugu, during the installation of the 15th President for the Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ECCIMA), Mr. Emeka Nwandu. He thanked members of various chambers in Nigeria for being part of the economic growth of Nigeria and encouraged government at all levels to patronise Made-in-Nigeria goods, saying: “As Governor, I bought over 1,000 Innoson vehicles for various uses, because such support usually has domino effect on the economy of the country.” Nwandu, stated that as the 15th President of ECCIMA, he would work with the governors in the south-east to reposition the ECCIMA for greater relevance by increasing its visibility and viability. He said the major focus of his tenure would be to attract more foreign trade missions to enhance members’ participation in international business relationship as well as advocating that the federal government should complete the development of the Enugu International Trade Fair Complex and the completion of the ECCIMA Secretariat complex with landscaping and asphalting of the premises. “Being the headquarters of South East Chambers of Commerce, we shall work with SECCIMA to attract Igbo sons and daughters to invest at least 10 per cent of their businesses in the south-east. “At the same time, we will continue to advocate for the federal government to improve on the ease of doing business in this region, such as providing for liquefied gas reticulation, reducing the cost of energy, developing our seaports and inland dry ports as well as other enablers such as infrastructure and business friendly policies in all our state governments in the south east region,” Nwandu said, as he urged the government to demonstrate the political will to develop “the industrial cum commercial ecosystem of the eastern region.” He also declared that the forthcoming 31st Enugu International Trade Fair would commence from March 13 to March 23, 2020. “We will be organizing specialized fairs/exhibitions in various areas such as Automobile, fashion, food etc.,” he said. The outgoing President of the chamber, Mr. Emeka Udeze, said his tenure marked the beginning of the repositioning process for the chamber.