The Permanent Secretary, Cross River State Ministry of Education, Mrs Aniedi Bassey-Ekpenyong, has tasked parents and teachers to encourage students to participate in inter-house sports to develop their talents. Bassey-Ekpenyong stated this during the 82nd Founder’s Day/Inter-house sports competition of the West African Peoples Institute in Calabar.
She charged pupils of the institute to maintain the high standard the school has been known for in the past 82 years. Speaking on the essence of the sporting competition, she said, “We believe in the holistic development of a child and that includes extra-curricular activities such as what we are seeing, sporting activities, debate and all manner of things. This is the time for inter-house sports. “All schools are encouraged to hold inter-house sports so that the children will not just pass through the school without having anything to hold on to. It is at this stage that you discover talent. You may not know what the child can do but it is at inter-house sports that a child begins to display his talent. “It is at places like this that people have become the Mary Onyalis of our time. We always encourage inter-house sporting competitions in schools and I am happy to see what is happening in West African People’s Institute. The ministry is solidly behind what they are doing. We are happy to see what the children are doing and we encourage them to do more.” Chairman on the occasion and an old boy of the school, Dr Ubong Eyo, said old students were proud of the school because it was the only school at that time that was founded by a professor, Eyo Ita, who laid its foundation on academics. The Principal of the school, Mrs Mercy Donatus-Etim, commended the Obong of Calabar, Edidem Ekpo Okon Abasi Otu V and the Convener of Coalition for Good Governance and Justice, Mr Emmanuel Umohinyang, among others for their contribution to the development of the institute. Another old boy of the school and President of the 1997 set, Nkanu Nkanu-Ukpabi, said the old boys were responsible for the development of the institution.