Soldiers attached to Operation Hadarin Daji reportedly killed 24 bandits during separate encounters in the Jibia Local Government Area of Katsina State and Maru LGA of Zamfara State. The Acting Director, Defence Media Operations of the Defence Headquarters, Brig Gen Benard Onyeuko, while confirming the operation said, “The troops of Operation Hadarin Daji acting on credible intelligence invalidated two bandits in Bindim and Koli towns of Maru. “In the same vein, troops while on patrol at Gando rescued seven males and two females kidnapped by bandits. The victims have been handed over to their families. Also, about 42 cows and 38 sheep were recovered. Troops are currently dominating the area with patrols which have helped to build confidence of locals. “Similarly, troops responded to a distress call on the movement of bandits with rustled animals within Gurbin Magarya, Kwari and Garin Gado villages of Jibia Local Government Area of Katsina State. “In the course of operation, 24 bandits were killed in action; four AK-47 rifles, two locally-made pistols and three dane guns were recovered.” Zamfara State Commissioner for Security and Home Affairs, Alhaji Abubakar Dauran, also confirmed the attacks on the bandits. He added: “coordinated military operations are currently taking place in various parts of Zamfara and neighbouring states where the bandits are finding it difficult to survive.” The Katsina Police Command said it recovered seven corpses of suspected bandits from Shabba forest in the Jibia Local Government Area of the state. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mr. Gambo Isah, a supretendent of police, who also confirmed the development said the security team was still combing the forest for other suspected bandits. He said, “You will recall that on March 19, 2020 around 6am, a joint police/military operation engaged suspected bandits in a gun duel at Shabba Forest, Jibia Local Government Area. In the process, 19 cows, 17 sheep and 34 goats in custody of the criminals were recovered. Many of the bandits were killed while others escaped with gunshots wound.”