Peter Uzoho The National Youth Council of Ogoni People (NYCOP) has expressed its support for the appointment of Dr. Bashir Jamoh, as the new Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA). NYCOP, in a letter signed by eight of its members, including the President, Dr. Young Nkpa, and the Secretary, Mr. Celestine Nkiri, which was seen by THISDAY, said it welcomed the news of Jamoh’s appointment as NIMASA DG “with renewed enthusiasm.” According to the letter, “We are particularly excited that given his established track record at NIMASA as a highly-experienced and well-groomed maritime expert with passion for maritime security, Dr. Jamoh’s appointment represents for Ogoni people and indeed the entire Niger Delta, the opportunity for renewed sustainable economic development and environmental sustainability, together with the restoration of peaceful and beneficial development of the natural resources of which Ogoniland is endowed.” The incoming NIMASA boss, who has a PhD from the University of Port Harcourt, specialising in logistics and transport management, is also the current President of the Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria (CIoTA). He is a member and fellow of several prestigious national and international professional bodies The 56-year-old maritime expert joined NIMASA in 2003 as Assistant Chief Commercial Officer in charge of Eastern and Central Zones. Jamoh, who hails from Kaduna State, also holds a Master’s degree in Management from Korea Maritime and Ocean University. He also attended Bayero University, Kano 1993; Institute of Administration, 1986 Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria; and Kaduna Teacher’s College, Kaduna 1983, where he obtained Post Graduate Diploma in Management, Diploma in Accounting, and GII Teacher’s Certificate, respectively The seasoned administrator and maritime expert, has also attended several leadership and management courses at the Harvard University US, Oxford University UK; Cambridge University UK; International Training Centre of ILO Turin Italy; and Institute of Public Private Partnership Washington DC. Others include: International Law Institute, USA; and Institute for Leadership and Development for the Public Good, USA; Royal Institute of Public Administration UK; and World Maritime University, Sweden, amongst others. He is also the author of the book, “Harnessing Nigeria’s Maritime Assets – Past, Present and Future” The consummate administrator and trainer, who has 32 years of professional and technocratic experience in the transportation and maritime sectors of the Nigerian economy, has organised and facilitated leadership training and manpower development programmes in several countries including UK, USA., UAE, South Africa, Brazil, Malaysia and Sweden, among others.