Covid-19/THE Toll… •Italy recorded 33 deaths per hour yesterday
•Ravages 7 members of a family killing 4 in New Jersey
•Official: 80% of people in Madrid will likely get virus By Our Correspondents Health authorities in Nigeria are expressing concerns over Nigerians in diaspora who are now returning to the country.
Their concern is based on the fact that the returnees pose the highest risk to Nigeria right now.
One of the officials told THISDAY that “these Nigerians are returning from abroad where they have this disease and bring it into the country and once they enter the country they lie to the airport authorities and medical practitioners about their travel history. “Out of the 22 cases the country has recorded so far, 19 of them are returning Nigerians.”
Meanwhile, across the globe, scientists and medical experts are racing against time on how to end the scourge of Covid-19 earlier than the current projection of up to 18 months.
United States President, Mike Pence and his wife Karen Pence have both tested negative for the Coronavirus, his office announced Saturday night. The test became necessary when one of his staff tested positive to virus.
Pence is leading the administration’s coronavirus task force and has been a regular presence at President Donald Trump’s side in recent weeks. Meanwhile, the death toll from coronavirus around the world continue to mount, rising to 12,978 with Italy recording 4,825 cases and a single-day death toll of 793, an average of 33 deaths per hour. In New Jersey in the United States of America, the horror of the virus was laid bare as it ravaged seven members of a single family, killing four. The matriarch of the large New Jersey family, Grace Fusco, died Wednesday night without ever knowing that her two oldest children had died before her. Mrs. Fusco, 73, died after contracting the coronavirus — hours after her son died from the virus and five days after her daughter’s death, a relative said.
On Thursday, another child who had contracted the virus, Vincent Fusco, died, the relative, Roseann Paradiso Fodera, said. Three other children remain hospitalised, two of them in critical condition, revealed Ms. Paradiso Fodera, the family’s lawyer who is Mrs. Fusco’s cousin and is serving as a spok.
Spain’s death toll has also increased to more than 1,300, while in Iran, the number of deaths hit another grim milestone of 1,500 as the country marks the beginning of the Persian New Year.
However, Spain official warned that a scary 80 per cent of people in Madrid will likely get coronavirus. But whilst many are optimistic that the world would soon see the back of the virus, governments all over the world are not resting on their oars but taking initiatives to suppress a further spread of the virus. In Nigeria, there are already positive Covid-19 cases of 23 persons, including 10 new cases announced yesterday. But in the early hours of Sunday morning, Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde announced that one person had tested positive at Bodija in Ibadan raising the number of positive tests to the Coronavirus in the country to 23.
That is not only disturbing but calls for reflection. Situation report across the 36 states reveals a disturbing sense of unpreparedness. First, there are no testing centres in many of the states to quickly carry out testing and speedily get result. As a matter of fact, four out of the six geopolitical zones in the country have no centres. According to report by a national newspaper, there are no testing facilities in the South-east, North-west, North-east and North-central zones of the country, heightening fears among millions of people in the 19 states in the regions of what would likely happen when the urgent need to be tested arises. In all, there are five laboratories in the country that have the requisite facilities to test for the virus and they are located in the South-west and South-south. This complemented two federal laboratories in Lagos and one in Osun State.
Another laboratory is in Edo State (South-south), while the only one in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) takes care of the whole northern region and to some extent, the South East. The laboratories identified for the test include the NCDC National Reference Laboratory, Abuja; the Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital in Edo State; the Virology Laboratory in the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH); the Nigeria Institute for Medical Research (NIMR); and the Lagos African Centre of Excellence for Genomics of Infectious Disease in Osun State. With this dire situation, a major outbreak is easily going to overwhelm the very fragile healthcare system with grave consequences for lives. Yet, amid these massive inadequate facilities, the various states are scrambling to shore up whatever they can in preparation for the very grim possibility of an outbreak. Lagos: Rising to the Occasion and Showing Leadership If Lagos State was prepared for a pandemic outbreak, it was because the state, as it is today, was the index state for the Ebola challenge some years ago. Today, the hospital boasts a 100-bed isolation facility, the only one in the country. And with the current statistics, 22 cases have been recorded in the country, with Lagos leading the pack.
But the state had upgraded its isolation facilities at the IDH in the case of an escalation in the number of cases, revealing that two additional containment centres had been created with 100-bed spaces and necessary medical equipment to manage cases.
Also, there are two mobile isolation wards of 15-bed capacity each stationed in the hospital. Today as the number of cases continues to rise, the state government has closed all school for one month, while forbidding social gathering of more than 20 people in the state. Enugu: Working on the Situation Reports The Enugu State Government has demonstrated its commitment to contain the rampaging COVID 19 pandemic by approving the sum of N320 million in readiness for any outbreak in the state. Though the state has not recorded any cases except a Septuagenarian, who was quarantined but later tested negative after her samples were subjected to necessary tests.
A breakdown of the sum according to the state medical team led by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr. Ifeanyi Agujiobi showed that N150 million would be used to tackle the issue of Coronavirus and ensure that the state is fully prepared, while the sum N80 million was for the procurement of important and essential drugs that might be needed to treat and manage Coronavirus, Lassa fever and other communicable diseases. Consequently, the government approved the immediate upgrade and relocation of the state Isolation Centre to ESUT Teaching Hospital, Parklane, Enugu, since the existing structure at Colliery hospital, Enugu is said to lack the necessary facilities as recommended by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). There’s also an approval of N100 million to be kept in the Emergency Operation Centre account, in case of any emergency, whilst the toll free lines are 117 and 112 including 08182555550 as a dedicated line for emergency response. Edo: Embracing the Community Approach The Edo State Government has taken serious steps to suppress the outbreak of COVID-19 with Governor Godwin Obaseki, holding extended meetings with critical stakeholders, including the traditional rulers, religious leaders and grassroots politicians at the weekend, with a view to harmonising strategies aimed at safeguarding the public. The governor said Edo State was adopting the strategy of consulting these leaders because of their strong connection with the grassroots and people across all spectra of the society as well as their effectiveness in passing information and eliciting effective action to stem falsehood and panic among the people. Apart from extensive consultation with traditional, religious and political leaders for intensified sensitization, the state has reactivated her contact tracing mechanism earlier used to contain other infectious diseases such as Lassa Fever, and a strong emphasis on rigorous screening at ports of entry into the state. Also, there is rigorous temperature testing system established across the state in collaboration with medical and paramedical organisations. This is in recognition of the fact that the state is a major transportation hub with constant inflow of people. Temperature tests are conducted on passengers at the Benin Airport and motor parks across the state. The strategy is such that those whose final destination is Edo State and others commuting through the state are subjected to temperature tests. FCT: Taking Every Precaution Necessary Federal Government has begun to construct a permanent Isolation and quarantine centre for the immediate management of Coronavirus near the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital in Gwagwalada.
But in the interim, the federal ministry of health has designated the Intensive Care Unit at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital solely for Coronavirus patients, who may be referred there. Attached to the ICU at the Gwagwalada are special purpose ambulances meant to respond to any emergency situation, laboratory for Testing of Coronavirus cases/hotline. Abuja is believed to be one of the places with most equipped laboratories for the testing of Coronavirus and other infectious diseases. At the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja, Port Health Services and NCDC officials have a modern infectious disease screening facility to handle incoming and out-boarding travellers. The airport health services unit also has standby ambulance for easy evacuation of patients that test positive to Covid-19 virus. Ondo: Following the Lead All schools in Ondo State have been closed with effect from Friday, March 20, 2020 on the order of the state government in a statewide broadcast by Governor Oluwatotimi Akeredolu to control the spread of Coronavirus.
The government has also reactivated the Infectious Disease Hospital, established in the wake of the Ebola Virus to serve as isolation centre in case of any outbreak of COVID-19 in the state. The facility located on Igbatoro Road in the outskirt of the Akure, the state capital, is equipped with equipment meant to treat patients. Though the government did not ban public gathering either in religious centres or social gatherings, government has been advising residents against events that involve large crowd The government has however postponed indefinitely, the Convocation ceremony of the Ondo State University of Science and Technology, now Olusegun Agagu University of Science and Technology Okitipupa scheduled for yesterday. Katsina: When Timing Is of the Essence In Katsina, the government has inaugurated an Isolation Centre at the General Hospital, Katsina, and provided ambulances to tackle any outbreak of Coronavirus in the state. The state has so far recorded only one suspected case of the virus and the patient has since tested negative. Governor Aminu Bello Masari has therefore ordered the immediate closure of both public and private schools in the state for 30 days with effect from March 23, 2020.
Commissioner for Health, Nuhu Yakubu Danji, who confirmed this to THISDAY, added that government had also reactivated its Emergency Response Committee and purchased medical equipment, including personal protective equipment. He said members of the committees would proactively monitor, supervise and coordinate government’s response to the disease in rural and urban cities across the state.
In addition, he said government had commenced the training of health workers including disease surveillance and notification officers and clinicians on how to handle suspected cases of COVID-19 Niger: Boasting Assertive Leadership Though there has not been any reported case of Coronavirus in any part of the state, the Niger state government has taken some measures to ensure the disease did not break into the state or at the very least, spread. Among the steps is the closure of all public, private and tertiary institutions across the state effective from Monday. The government has held series of meetings with owners of the schools especially, the private ones to ensure they key into the initiative. As a result, all the institutions had rescheduled their timetables to make sure students complete the writing of their second term examinations yesterday. The government has also announced a ban on all public gatherings with more than 50 people in addition to stopping all seminars workshops and other programmes that could assemble this number of people.
According to the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Ahmed Ibrahim Matane, the state has set aside the sum N28.7m to fight the virus with the bulk of the amount going to the setting up and equipping isolation wards and sensitising the general public. Anambra: Not Taking Chances There is though no established case of Covid-19 in Anambra State so far, the state government is however not oblivious of the dangers associated with the disease. Thus, in its effort to ensure that the state remains free from the pandemic, the state has set up task force to ensure that all hospitality homes in the state keep to all preventive measures while dealing with their guests. Chidi Kalu, chairman of the committee said they would also be teaching the basic hygiene procedures for convid-19, how to use the infra-red thermometer screening machine, the alcohol based sanitizer, as well as ensuring that every guest is screened and documented in order to track and checkmate the eventual track of convid-19. In response to the activities of the pandemic across the world, the government has announced a ban on social gatherings and schools in the state. A press statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof Solo Chukwulobelu, stated that the ban is to take effect from Monday, 23rd March. THISDAY gathered that beyond the ban on public gathering and schools, crowded markets like Eke Awka market and the Onitsha main market might also be affected. Ebonyi State: Salt of the Nation Not Lagging Behind The Ebonyi State Governor, Chief David Umahi, had ordered closure of all private and public nursery, primary, secondary and tertiary institutions in the state as part of measures to curtail the spread of the pandemic in the state. In a statement by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Dr. Kenneth Ugbala, the governor also closed down night clubs and restricted night activities in the state.
Umahi also directed the Ministry of Health and State Committee on Anti Coronavirus to deploy all health officers in all markets, rice mills, banks and other public event management centres to carry out test on people. Sokoto: Redefining the Red Alert Syndrome Sokoto State government has provided three isolation centres and dispelled rumours over suspected case of COVID 19 in the state. Commissioner for Health, Dr Ali Inname, told the THISDAY yesterday that the Ministry of Health was constantly monitoring the situation across the state.
Inname said the centers were located at Amanawa Infectious disease hospital, Usmanu Danfodio Teaching Hospital and a special centre at the Specialists Hospital in the state capital. The commissioner however urged residents to go about their normal activities and observe the precautionary measures of cough etiquette, hand hygiene, social distancing, avoiding large crowd and seeking healthcare early. Other measures were providing of professional advise for necessary gathering, mandatory self isolation for all returnees from COVID 19 endemic countries, engagement with ministry of education, Airport Authority, and other security operatives in the state. Inname added that ambulance services would also be provided 24 hours for the isolation centres. Oyo: Not Ready to Learn the Hard Way The Oyo State Government has declared an emergency over the Coronavirus pandemic by ordering the immediate closure of schools and the inauguration of emergency operation centres, among other measures. Governor Seyi Makinde made the disclosure after the inaugural meeting of the state’s COVID-19 Task Force, held at the Government House, Agodi, Ibadan.
He said the schools would remain closed till after Easter while the government would use the period of the forced break to evaluate the situation and put protective system in place in the schools. Other measures to be put in place include activation of Emergency Operation Centres and a Diagnostic Centre while the Maternal and Paediatrics Centre, Olodo, Ibadan, has been re-designated as the State Infectious Disease Hospital.
Two ambulances to be on standby to attend to cases of Coronavirus, Disease Surveillance and Notification Officers (DSNOs), located in all the 33 Local Government Areas and 35 Local Council Development Areas, to continue their surveillance activities. Plateau: Appealing to Common Sense Though there is no confirmed case of coronavirus in Plateau State, the state has established three isolation centres in readiness for any eventuality. They are Bingham University Teaching Hospital, Jos, Jos University Teaching Hospital, Jos, and Plateau Specialist Hospital, Jos.
The isolation centres, according to the Commissioner of Information, Mr. Dan Manjang, are properly prepared to provide adequate comfort for suspects. The state has also ordered all public and private schools shut ranging from Nursery, Primary, Secondary, to Tertiary institutions. It has also placed restrictions on attendance of marriage and burial ceremonies in the state, warning that only family members are expected at such ceremonies that must not witness a crowd of over 50 persons. The state also warned that all tricycles, taxis and buses must have hand sanitizers for their passengers, while cultural and traditional ceremonies are totally suspended.
According to the Secretary to the State Government, Prof Danladi Atu and State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Nimkong Lar Ndam, worship places must not gather a congregation of over 50 worshippers, adding that water, soap, and hand sanitizers must be provided for the worshippers. Abia: Getting Everyone Back to Work Following the first index case of CVID-19 in Nigeria, the Abia State government had set up an inter-ministerial committee to manage her preparation and response to the pandemic. The committee headed by the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Joe Osuji also has as members, his counterparts from information, homeland security, and science and technology. Consequently, two isolation centrers have been set up at the Federal Medical Center (FMC) and Amachara Specialist Hospital, all in Umuahia, the capital city.
According to the Commissioner for Information, Chief John Okiyi Kalu, “The facilities are purpose-equipped for isolation of patients with such infectious diseases, including those who may be present with Coronavirus. A third isolation centre is being prepared at the Abia State University Teaching Hospital (ABSUTH), Aba while a fourth centre would be set up at Abia North senatorial district. Kogi: Guided by the Reports Following the confirmation of Coronavirus and increase in the number of people tested positive in the country, the Kogi State government has put the state on red alert and put in place certain measures to suppress the spread of the deadly disease in the state.
Commissioner for Health, Dr. Saka Haruna Audu made this known at a stakeholders meeting held at the Ministry of Health, Lokoja, adding that the ministry would collaborate with his counterparts in the Information, Education and Transport to map out strategies on how to handle the pandemic. The State, Audu said, has organised sensitization exercises and awareness campaigns across the state, adding that the ministry would engage in house to house campaign, create awareness in schools, higher institutions of learning, popular market places and motor parks.
He noted that government would increase the capacity of Health Workers by training them on how to identify the disease and care for infected patients with appropriate precautionary measures and application of Standard barrier nursing tactics. He, however, advised the general public not to panic, as governments at all levels have intensified efforts to prevent the spread of the virus, disclosing that Kogi has set up temporary Isolation wards at the Confluence Advanced Medical Diagnostic & Imaging Centre (CAMDIC), Lokoja. Osun: A Step at a Time Presently, there is no case of Covid-19 in Osun State. Perhaps, it is the reason the state doesnot have any isolation centres. But the state is making up by responding to the national emergency through sensitisation of the people on the development.
For example, the government has shut down schools and other public institutions as well as gathering of too many people of more 50. The ban will affect all Schools, Churches, Mosques, Night Clubs and Sports arenas among others, in the state. Government, which advised the citizenry not to panic, especially, because no case has been recorded in the state so far, noted that it arrived at the decision it took after wide consultations with health professionals and stakeholders in the health sector over COVID-19.
This position was however contained in a statement by Ismail Omipidan, the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, where he stated that the mere fact that a few cases had been reported in neighbouring states makes it imperative to act. Ekiti: Leaving No Stone Unturned Following the death of a 27-year-old male American, who was visiting Nigeria from Richmond, Virginia, USA, in the company of his caregiver, a Nigerian female, also of Ekiti origin, while conveying them around their holiday destinations, the government of the state believed it was the avenue through which Coronavirus came into the state.
Although Governor Kayode Fayemi had since briefed the US embassy in the country including staying in touch with the family of the deceased, it was clear to the governor Covid-19 might have begun to spread. To that extent, Fayemi, recently barred social, political, religious and family gatherings of more than 20 persons as part of efforts to check the spread of the virus.
In addition, he announced that all public and private schools as well as institutions in Ekiti State would be closed down from Monday, March 23, even as he directed that, “all non-essential workers in private and public sectors are encouraged to work from home from Monday, March 23”. In a statewide broadcast in Ado Ekiti, the state capital, Fayemi said, “Now that we are aware of its presence in our midst, we must leave no stone unturned to make Ekiti State coronavirus (COVID-19) free. We must combat and curtail its spread by ensuring our people are actively involved in government’s efforts to fight this global pandemic. While the world frantically searches for a cure, our best and only defence, is prevention.” Kwara: Taking It Slow and Steady The Kwara State government has announced the closure of all public and private schools in the state from tomorrow, March 23. This was contained in a statement issued in Ilorin by the Chief Press Secretary to the state governor, Rafiu Ajakaye.
The statement also noted that Kwara has no confirmed or suspected case of COVID-19 as at this moment, but that “The government is nonetheless putting in place all measures to keep the people safe at all times. “The synergy with the port authorities has been strengthened to ensure thorough screening of people coming into and going out of Kwara State while the state’s isolation centre has been fully equipped to take care of any eventuality.
“Members of the public may contact these telephone numbers to report anything related to the pandemic: 08064369063, 090293978826. The state is on red alert as the world confronts this pandemic”. Bauchi: Simply Battle Ready The Bauchi State Government has established and equipped four Isolation centres across the state, preparatory for any incidences of Coronavirus in the state.
Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed has also constituted an Action Initiative Against the outbreak of coronavirus and the spread of the Lassa fever in the state. The team is headed by the deputy governor, Senator Baba Tela, and assisted by relevant health agencies and international health partners, like the UNICEF and WHO
The chairman of the State Primary Health Care Development Agency (SPHCDA), Dr Rilwanu Mohammed, stated that though the state was yet to detect any case of coronavirus, the establishment of the centres was geared towards curtailing the communicable disease.
The government has however engaged very effective sensitisation and enlightenment campaign on the virus in all the motor parks, markets, worship centres and among others, in adding to closing down all schools. Imo: Making Sense of a Difficult Situation As part of efforts to curtail the spread of the Coronavirus, the Imo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma has ordered the immediate closure of all primary, secondary and tertiary institutions in the state. He also announced plan to establish a Specialist Hospital for this disease. Governor Uzodimma who made a broadcast to the people of Imo State on measures to prevent and control the virus (COVID-19), Friday, stated that he was taking elaborate steps to ensure that the health and wellbeing of Imolites remain priority of his administration. He has therefore inaugurated a Protection and Control Committee headed by Prof. Maurice Iwu to commence a round the clock surveillance of all strata of the state for effective prevention and control of the disease. There are also arrangements to test all passengers arriving at the Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport, Owerri for symptoms of the virus. Also, A State-of-the-art modern Ambulance has been provided for the Committee to facilitate its operations. An isolation centre has been set up within the state sapital to quarantine any person who tests positive to the virus. A test centre has equally been set up in Owerri to examine those with symptoms of the virus. Ogun: In Safe Hands Already In Ogun State, government is upgrading the Isolation Center in OOUTH; there’s ongoing reconstruction of a General Hospital into an Isolation Center; state is intensifying SensitisationStrategyIsWorking campaign on personal and respiratory hygiene at the State, LG and ward levels. There’s a Mobile Application named COVID-19 App to all Primary Health Centers in Ewekoro Local Government area to aid information sharing among health workers and prompt notification of the state in the event of any suspected case.
Apart from collaborating with the Nigeria Immigration Service that is working with health workers in border areas, the Case Management Team of Ogun State Ministry of Health was in Lagos for three days training to study the index case management Delta: Heightened Readiness and Alert So far, no case of COVID-19 has been reported in Delta State, however, the state government, through its Commissioner for Health, Dr. Mordi Ononye has announced the establishment of six state of the art special isolation centres and hostels in Warri, Oghara, Koko, Sapele seaports and Asaba Airport, immediately the first case of the virus in Nigeria was announced. The state readiness is supported by the insurance sector.
That has since been increased to 12 with the main centre within the FMC Asaba, in anticipation of COVID-19. The isolation centres are all standard medical facilities initially created to handle Lassa Fever cases in Delta, but the centre at the FMC Asaba has been upgraded in response to COVID-19 outbreak. The government has done remarkably well in case of an outbreak
Several events, including the 2020 entrepreneurship and agricultural training scheme launch/exhibition scheduled for last Thursday have been cancelled while all primary, post-primary and tertiary institutions are to be shut indefinitely from Wednesday March 26, 2020 on the orders of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa.
Handbills, posters, jingles and newspaper advertisement are being used to sensitize the general public on the extreme personal and environmental hygiene practice. Kano: Prepared for the Worst In Kano State, there is no reported case of corona virus despite the rumour of three cases that have all tested negative.
The government said the state remained free from the virus and assured the people that it was intensifying surveillance and emergency preparedness as well as a response committee to detect any suspected case for prompt action. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Aminu Ibrahim Tsanyawa, said government had also equipped the state isolation center at Yargaya hospital in case of any emergency.
The government has also directed the closure of public and private schools, including tertiary institutions across the state as part of precautionary measures against the threat posed by the virus. Akwa Ibom: Working on Facts Akwa Ibom State Government yesterday dismissed rumours that Coronavirus had reached the state.
But long before the first case of the coronavirus was confirmed in Nigeria, Governor Udom Emmanuel had instructed the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Dominic Ukpong to be on top of the issue and equally directed an Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Task Force to be immediately set up in the state. Sao far, the state has been creating awareness through the media to sensitize residents with relevant information on COVID-19 in English, pidgin and local dialects.
Also, surveillance, prevention and infection control measures have been instituted in hospitals across the state. Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) has been distributed to all health facilities to facilitate infection prevention and control.
The Emergency Operation and Treatment Centre (EOC), in Ikot Ekpene is to serve as an isolation/treatment centre to receive, and care for any confirmed case of COVID-19. Adamawa: Embarked on House-to-House Campaign The Adamawa State government has put in place an isolation centre for screening of patients as part of measure to suppress coronavirus in the state.
Commissioner for Health, Professor, Abdullahi Isah said there was no case of corona virus in the state and that the case of two school pupils that created tension tested negative.
But the Commissioner for Information and strategy, Dr. Umar Garba, said the government has embarked on house-to-house campaign, using its public health system to create awareness on the virus.
He said some medical personnel have embarked on training to enable them handled any eventuality in the state, even as he appealed to the people to take personal hygiene seriously. Borno: Proactive and on Standby There are though no cases of coronavirus in Borno State, the state government has put in place measures to stem the spread of the disease.
Already, the isolation centre dedicated to the victims of Lassa Fever, has been designated for coronavirus. The centre presently accommodates 100 beds but has been extended to accommodate 120. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Salihu Kwaya-Bura disclosed that all medical facilities were on red alert and could be deployed in times of emergency. He noted that all entries into the state were strictly being monitored to check against the spread into the state. Further measures have been put in place to ensure that the disease did not get into the internally displaced persons camps, even as schools are expected to be closed this week.
Governor Babagana Zulum has however inaugurated a high-powered response team for prevention and control of the disease. The team led by the deputy governor has the commissioner of health as its secretary. Rivers: Sifting the Facts from Fear There is currently no reported or confirmed case of CONVID-19 in Rivers State. But the state has been on red alert. The State Government had earlier set up a five-man inter-ministerial committee on aggressive public enlightenment.
And so far, the committee has met with community development committees (CDCs), religious groups, the media, principals/head teachers of schools, traders associations, national union of road transport workers (NURTW), military/paramilitary agencies, the police, international oil companies and Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON). Thus, on Friday, the state ordered the closure of all the public and private schools as well as universities in the state, while restricting activities of religious organisations. The government also vowed to punish defaulters of the emergency measures. Governor Nyesom Wike said the state was in a state of alert, because it is the headquarters of the hydrocarbon industry and also a major commercial hub in the country.
He claimed that the state had trained 158 surveillance and ad-hoc personnel and had set up one treatment centre, holding centres in the two Teaching Hospitals and all General Hospitals in the State and that all were fully functional. Taraba: Addressing the Basics In the past three days, Taraba State has taken several measures to prevent the spread of Convid-19, top of which is the closure of both public and private schools in the state from primary to tertiary institutions beginning from tomorrow, March 23, including banning of gatherings of more than twenty people.
Governor Darius Ishaku, who announced the measures in a statewide broadcast on Saturday, also ordered recreational centres such as bars, restaurants, viewing centres and other related venues not to operate beyond 7pm. Ishaku equally advised the people of the state to maintain social distances and avoid intimate etiquettes especially, handshakes, hugging and kissing, saying such intimate acts have been identified by medical experts as the easiest ways of contracting the virus.
Other measures announced by the state government includes designation of the Federal Medical Centre, Jalingo and the Specialist Hospital as isolation Centres, though THISDAY gathered that the hospitals are yet to be adequately equipped to render such services, while a toll free line is also yet to be provided. THISDAY have gathered that the FMC Jalingo, being a centre for the treatment of Lassa fever has some protective gadgets in its stores for the use of medical personnel pending, when the government would make further supplies. Cross-River: Beyond the Academic Jargons In Cross River State, official information has it that there has been no recorded case of Covid-19 in the state that shares hundreds of kilometres of land and maritime boundaries with the Central African country, Cameroon.
Commissioner for Health, Dr. Betta Edu, said despite the non-recording of any confirmed case of Covid-19, the state had moved early enough to establish and equip Isolation centres at the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital (UCTH), and the General Hospitals in Ogoja in the northern part of the state. She said the Isolation Centres were equipped with hospital beds, screens, air conditioners, examination beds, plastic tables and chairs, bedside lockers, non contact infrared thermometers, digital blood pressure equipment, stethoscope, digital thermometers, safety boots, washing machines, PPEs, mackintosh, etc. Aside from the Isolation Centres in Calabar and Ogoja, the state government said its long borders with Cameroon, from the south to the north of the state has been provided with monitoring centres, where people moving across the borders of both countries are screened. As an additional measure at containing the spread in the country, Edu announced on Friday that all public gatherings of over 100 people have been banned until further notice.
Despite the efforts and measures put in place to prevent the spread of Covid-19, there are complaints that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is still holding campaign rallies preparatory to the local government elections in the state scheduled for March 28, 2020, a development widely condemned as capable of causing infection and spread of the virus. Gombe: Leveraging the Team Spirit Disturbed over the scourge of the corona virus, the Gombe State Government has mobilised its Rapid Response Team and placed the emergency operations centre on red alert.
Speaking on the state of preparedness for Covid-19 by the state government, Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the governor, Ismaila Uba Misilli said, “We have commenced intensive community enlightenment, sensitisation and mobilisation towards prevention in the state and massive IEC materials are being distributed statewide”. According to him, “We have procured PPEs and required consumables for management of cases and health workers are being trained. The state government has a 20-bed isolation facility and approval has been given for procurement of ventilators and other equipment needed”, adding that, “We’ll continue to monitor situation at state, regional and national levels”. Yobe: Disabusing the Mob Mentality There was a scare of coronavirus in Yobe State about two weeks ago, when someone was suspected to have the virus. He was isolated and tested, the result however came out negative and he was freed to reunite with the society. But as preparation for any attack of the disease, the state has already established an isolation centre at the General Sani Abatcha Specialist Hospital, Damaturu. It has Data Centre at Emergency Operation Centre (EOC) located in New Bra Bra Housing Estate, Damaturu, while the Oxygen Centre is situated in the State University Teaching Hospital also in Damaturu. There is no official statement on the closure of schools but Yobe State University is already closed in compliance with the directives from the National Universities Commission (NUC).
Mosques and Churches are also not closed as at the moment but there is rumour on the streets that schools might be ordered closed tomorrow.