Multinational food and beverage brand, Nestle has entered the market with new ‘Milo Plant Based’ version. The latest was first launched in Australia and brought in to cater for those who preferred plant based alternatives in their diet. The new milo serves as an alternative to the milk powder with soy and oats and packs same ingredients as the popular Milo: malt, barley and cocoa. Providing more details on the new product, the Head of Dairy business unit at Nestlé, Trevor Clayton, stated that the new product was in fulfilment of the firm’s promise to offer consumers food that is right for them and right for the planet. He said: “People are looking to vary their diets with more plant-based options, including to lower their environmental footprint and for health reasons. We already have some great plant-based products and are now adding one of our biggest global brands with Milo. “Our development team worked hard to make sure it kept the same unmistakable choc-malt taste and iconic crunch that that Australians have grown up with.” “The latest beverage drinks is lower in sugar compared to original Milo and has a combination of vitamins and minerals to support effective energy release. It gives people a plant-based option, alongside the original, reduced-sugar and extra protein versions.” The new Milo follows on from other recent launches of plant-based beverages. Nestlé in Brazil introduced oat- and pea-based Ninho Forti + on shelves from December 2019, in a ready-to-drink carton with a paper straw. The United States saw the launch of Nesquik GoodNes in January, based on oat and pea protein with the chocolate milk flavor of Nesquik. The firm has stepped up its focus on providing more nutritious options for children, with Nestlé for Healthier Kids program. It two focus areas include accelerating healthy transformation of Nestlé’s product portfolio in line with World Health Organisation ,WHO’s recommendations, and inspiring healthier eating with supportive programmes and services.