By Emmanuel Ugwu As part of the strategies to curb the spread of COVID-19 to Abia State, the state Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, at the weekend cancelled the 27th convocation ceremony of the Abia State University (ABSU) Uturu, which was already scheduled for March 27. He announced this measure at a press conference at the Government House in Umuahia on his return from Australia, saying he had equally directed the management of the state-owned school to shut down activities till further notice. According to him, “I think that this is an opportunity for me to officially announce that the convocation ceremony of Abia State University Uturu would no longer hold because it is a global event. “Some people might have even come from outside Nigeria, and it would be improper to begin to think of the convocation under the circumstances that we have found ourselves.” The governor stated that while it has become necessary to close down all institutions of learning from primary to tertiary as precautionary measure, it would in no way imply that coronavirus would make us illiterate people. He, therefore, announced a contingency fund of N10 million each for all tertiary institutions in the state to enable them establish online tutorials and maintain contacts with teachers and students. Ikpeazu, who outlined the various measures put in place by his government to protect the people from the devastating coronavirus, noted that it was necessary for Abia people to know that the government was doing all in its power to safeguard their health. “We will encourage all tertiary institutions to continue to interact with their students, using and deploying various online platforms,” he said. He added that the deployment of online platforms by tertiary institutions would guarantee uninterrupted learning for students while staying at home till it’s appropriate for them to return to their campuses. He assured the state that “he will not allow coronavirus to turn us to illiterate people. So, we will encourage online teaching, online tutorials, online contacts, using various platforms that are available.” On the closure of primary and secondary schools as had been done in some states across the country, Ikpeazu stated that “what we want to do is to encourage all primary and secondary schools to do everything within their powers to conclude their examinations and close before March 30, 2020.”