Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, yesterday revealed that the cure to the COVID-19 pandemic lied in the ability to explore the potential of the alternative and natural medicine. The monarch, who doubles as the Co-chairman of the National Council of Traditional Rulers of Nigeria(NCTRN), made the disclosure while addressing journalists at his Ile Oodua Palace in Ile Ife, emphasising that Nigeria as a country and the world at large must look inward for alternative solution. According to him, “A divine proclamation came out to the world on June 6, 2019, during the World Ifa Festival-Otura Meji-which foretold the impending rage of this invisible pandemic war, but few listened us. “Look at Cuba, a country that has a strong traditional ties with Nigeria, the kingdom of Ife in particular, they have not only defeated the COVID-19, but now rendering huge medical assistance to several countries across the world because they value their traditional heritage inherited from us here. “As the spiritual head of the Yoruba race, I have gathered a lot for the use of mankind. I am also currently working with Yem Kem International (Alternative Medicine Expert) pharmaceutical company for the packaging and distribution of these alternative medications globally. I also challenge researchers both in Nigeria and abroad to make these natural herbs into clinical medicine and extract the vaccines from it. “Necessity is the mother of innovation; we must create results from our current ways of life which is strange to us as a people. For example, the stay-at-home policy of the government should be improved upon to enable people work from home irrespective of their geographical locations.” While advocating that there are several positive sides to the pandemic, the Ooni noted that leaders especially those in the political class must rework the country’s system with a view to enable Nigerians, especially the youths, to maximise their potential. He added: “This is the first time in Nigeria that we will have so much money and other resources being expended on our health sector either as donations or budgetary. This in itself is a divine lesson that we must revive our health sector to satisfy everyone especially the poor and other vulnerable members of our society. “Look at us now; nobody can leave his or her country across the world, which implies that all parts of the world must be made habitable. We must all come together to make this country work, as there is no perfect system anywhere in the world. “Imagine how the world giant economies like United States and United Kingdom bowed and are still bowing to coronavirus. The disease is not a respecter of anybody or any nation; it is the common enemy of mankind that we must collectively combat and defeat.” The African foremost monarch equally thanked stakeholders across the country’s private sector for their kind donations, urging them to do more as it will remain an undisputed legacy that they stood for the country and its people in this moment of global health and economic challenges. In the same vain, the monarch urged Nigerians to adhere to the strict precautionary measures laid down by the state and federal governments as well as the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as the country struggles to end the pandemic.