Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, his deputy, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, traditional rulers and other top government functionaries are billed to attend the golden jubilee anniversary celebration of the Aramoko District Commercial Secondary School (ADICO), Aramoko Ekiti, a statement signed by the chairman of the anniversary planning committee, Wole Awodire has stated. The governor is also expected to commission a multi-million hall refurbished by the old students. The presentation is one of the events penciled down to commemorate the Golden Jubilee anniversary of the institution, which has been fixed between March 26th to 28th for the school’s Golden Jubilee Anniversary celebration. According to a statement signed by the Chairman Planning Committee of the anniversary celebration, Mr. Wole Awodire, which was made available to newsmen in Ado Ekiti, the golden jubilee anniversary was conceived to celebrate and bring all old students under the same umbrella. He also indicated that the anniversary celebration, which is the first formal gathering of the students of the institution in the last 50 years, will give members the opportunity to reconnect and think of the best way to intervene in the area of infrastructural development of the school. According to Awodire; “Whether as an individual or association, golden jubilee celebration is always an important occasion to look back, review steps and appreciate God. For ADICO old students, we see the anniversary celebration as a unique opportunity to come together and think of how we can impact a school that has contributed so much to nurture and develop us as individuals. At a time like this when governments at all levels are overwhelmed, an association like ours, as in other communities, will be handy enough to join hands with government to provide basic amenities to our great alma mater” The statement further stated that as part of the anniversary celebration, selected old students will visit former principals of the school as well as facility tours within the school to ascertain areas that require intervention. Speaking on other activities that have been penciled down for the celebration, the Chairman said there will be anniversary dinner, thanksgiving services, anniversary lecture, which will be delivered by a distinguished university lecturer and an old student of the school, Professor Ayo Olajuyigbe, on the topic “ADICO at 50, Reminiscences of the past, Realities of the present and prospects for the future”. Among other dignitaries, the Ekiti State Governor, Dr. John Kayode Fayemi, the State Commissioner for Education, Hon. Foluso Daramola, traditional rulers are billed to attend the event. The Royal Father of the day is His Majesty, Oba Adegoke Olu Adeyemi, mni, JP, Arugbajoye II, The Alara of Aramoko Kingdom. Aramoko District Commercial Secondary School, Aramoko Ekiti was established by the government of Western Region in 1970 in response to the yearnings of the people of Aramoko Ekiti and its environ for secondary school education. Within five years of its establishment, the school was able to attract students from far and near because of the dedication of the founding fathers who insisted on excellence and hard work. Over the years, ADICO has produced many prominent scholars, head of government parastatals, military officers, traditional rulers, head of service and professionals in many fields.