Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja The FCT administration has received about 10,000 applications from the public for regularisation of their Area Councils’ land titles within the Federal Capital Territory. The Chief Executive Officer of the Abuja Geographic Information Systems (AGIS), Dr. Isa Ibrahim Jalo, who stated this recently added that 22 mass housing developers have also made submissions for the massive regularisation of area council and mass housing land titles. Jalo said the project, which is being carried out under the Accelerated Area Councils and Sectional Titles Re-Issuance Scheme (AACSTRIS) is to be given a massive boost as budgetary allocation in the 2020 appropriation and manpower have been deployed to fast track the implementation process. He further revealed that since the new Section commenced work in earnest, about 1,530 Rights of Occupancy (R-of-O) have been prepared and ready for collection by the beneficiaries of the Mass Housing Scheme. The AGIS CEO added that about 300 R-of-O have been released to the allottees of the Area Councils titles as 30 Area Councils layouts have been vetted and ready for regularisation. According to Jalo, the process of issuance of Certificates of Occupancy (C of-O) for about 250 beneficiaries of the housing scheme is at an advanced stage, now awaiting developers’ compliance with terms of R-of-O to enable issuance of (C of-O). Jalo noted that the FCT Administration decided to resuscitate AACSTRIS in order to ensure that all Area Councils’ titles records were properly cleaned to avoid cases of multiple allocations and other sundry issues. “In order to drive this policy effectively, the FCT Administration has created a specialised section with an annex office beside AGIS complex, to be manned by competent personnel drawn from various land related departments,” Jalo said. He stressed that given the importance of the project, the National Assembly has appropriated funds in this year’s budget for the execution of this very important project. He said the scheme is expected to first and foremost, issue statutory R of-O and subsequently, C of-O to bonafide owners of titles in the Area Councils and Mass Housing. He reiterated that AGIS is also working assiduously to bring all its payments online for the comfort and easy accessibility of its customers, in consonance with the Ease of Doing Business policy of the federal government.