Emmanuel Addeh in Abuja The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has said it is set to take over the engine lubricants retail market in the country, with the official launch of its engine lubricants in Abuja. Speaking at a pre-launch press conference, Managing Director of NNPC Retail Limited, Mr. Billy Okoye, urged Nigerians to see the Nitro and Rhino range of engine oils as a way to curb the influx of substandard products in the Nigerian market. He assured Nigerians that in keeping with the company’s strategic objective of making high quality petroleum products available to Nigerians at the right quantity for the right price, the range of engine oils would be available at the over 600 NNPC Retail petrol stations as well as accredited distributors and mechanic workshops across the country. Okoye, explained that the Nitro range of engine oil which comes in four variants – Nitro Diamond, Nitro Gold, Nitro Super 40, and Nitro 2T – is for petrol engines, with the Nitro 2T specially designed for two-stroke engines like motorcycles. The Rhino range which has two variants (Rhino X and Rhino HD), he explained, is designed for diesel engines.
He said: “NNPC brings to bear its wealth of experience in birthing the Nitro and Rhino ranges, hence the connection with the slogan, ‘Na My Papa Born Me,’ in the product adverts we are rolling out in the media. “The message is that the products are truly Nigerian, truly national, truly world Class.”
In his comments, the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, who applauded the leadership shown by the Managing Director, NNPC Retail Ltd, Okoye, assured that more product lines would be developed to give Nigerians a viable choice. Kyari, urged Nigerians to embrace the engine oil as they were specially designed to meet the needs of Nigerian motorists.
“These products are not in competition with any product, they are a replacement for any other product in the market” he said. Also speaking at the event, Chairman of the NNPC Retail Limited’s Board and NNPC Chief Operating Officer, Gas and Power, Yusuf Usman, said the idea of NNPC lubricants was conceived long ago.
He assured that the introduction of the range of engine oils into the market would mark a turning point for Nigerian motorists. On his part, the NNPC Chief Operating Officer, Downstream, Adeyemi Adetunji, said the products were designed to stem the tide of prevalence of sub-standard engine oils in the Nigerian market which had been a cause for concern among motorists.
He said there was a huge potential for the products as Nigeria was the third largest lubricant market in Africa, stressing that even with the introduction of electric cars, lubricants would still be required. f the benefitswhich the cash centre offers by executing their transactions with FCMB, My Bank and I.” Also speaking, the Regional Head, Lagos, FCMB, Mr. Oliver Opara, reaffirmed the bank’s commitment to grow its network to meet the individual and business aspirations of its ever-increasing customer base across segments. According to him, “we consider our presence at the Agege abattoir as another veritable opportunity to further cement our relationship with Lagos and in turn, drive development in this part of the state. The Abattoir has become one of the major landmarks and bedrock of commercial activities in the state. It is a key player in the meat supply chain in Lagos State and indeed Nigeria, while also providing employment and empowerment opportunities to millions of people with significant impact on national development’’. Opara, who was represented by the Bank’s Zonal Head, Lagos Island, Mr. Emmanuel Comla, assured that, ‘’as an inclusive lender, we recognise that the only way we can succeed is when we support our customers to succeed. We are committed to scale our operations, build the requisite capabilities and deploy the best ways to simplify banking for our array of customers to fulfil their aspirations’’. In his goodwill speech, the Lagos State Commissioner for Agriculture, Prince Gbolahan Lawal, who was represented by a Director in the Ministry, Dr. Rasheed Macaulay, stated that, “when FCMB approached the State Government for a land to construct a cash centre at the Abattoir complex, we did not hesitate because of the track record of the Bank. We are optimistic that the presence of FCMB in this environment will further bring prosperity to individuals and businesses”.