Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has called on members of the National Executive Committee (NEC) and all party members to ignore the notice or invitation for a purported NEC meeting scheduled for Tuesday, describing it as a product of mischief. The Ag. National Secretary of the party, Chief Victor Giadom, had in a statement on Friday gave notice of the emergency NEC meeting. However, a statement jointly signed Saturday by the National Legal Adviser, Mr. Babatunde Ogala, National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu and the National Secretary, Arc. Waziri Bulama, described the purported NEC meeting as illegal. It said: “The National Working Committee therefore disassociates itself from the said illegal and unauthorized Notice of Meeting of the National Executive Committee. “Members of the National Executive Committee and the totality of the members of our great Party are therefore requested to ignore the said notice or invitation as a product of mischief that should not be given any probative value.” It added that the party’s constitution provides under Article 25 (B)(i) that a NEC meeting shall be convoked at every quarter and or at any time decided by the National Chairman or at the request made in writing by at least two-third of the members of the NEC provided that not less that 14 days notice is given for the meeting to be summoned. And under 25B(ii) Without prejudice to Article 25(B)(i) of this Constitution the NEC may summon an emergency NEC meeting at any time, provided that at least seven days notice of the meeting shall be given to all those entitled to attend. It stated that neither the National Chairman nor the resolution of two thirds of members of the NEC has directed nor made any request to summon a NEC meeting of the party. It stated: “The said Victor Giadom is not vested with any constitutional powers to convene any meeting of the National Executive Committee. Neither has he been so directed by the National Chairman.”