As part of its 35th anniversary celebration, Greensprings School, which turned 35 on January 21, 2020, has promised to offer 20 per cent discount on tuition fees at the pre-school level. Explaining the rationale behind the move, the founder of the school, Mrs. Lai Koiki said, “although we now have elementary, secondary and IB Diploma categories, Greensprings actually started as a pre-school in 1985. We are also extremely passionate about the foundation of every child because we understand the importance of early childhood education.” The curriculum used in the Greensprings pre-school is the Montessori Method and the school is one of only two schools in Nigeria that is certified by the Montessori Accreditation Council for Teacher Education (MACTE), USA – the international body that is responsible for the accreditation of Montessori schools. The school said it adopted the Montessori Method for early childhood education due to its effectiveness in activating all the senses of a child. “At Greensprings School, pupils are guided by experienced tutors who work assiduously to bring out the best in every child, focusing on these main areas: practical life exercises, which helps children develop confidence and self-control; sensorial education, which refines the five senses; numeracy, which gives children the opportunity to familiarize with basic mathematical calculations; literacy, which helps a child to develop writing, reading, and oral skills; and cultural subjects, which deal with exploration and appreciation of nature.” The Greensprings pre-school caters for children from age three months to five years in a conducive learning environment. It is a safe and secure environment for children to learn and play. “The 20 per cent discount is valid for the 2019/2020 session (September 2019 – June 2020) and everyone is welcome to take advantage of this opportunity to join this amazing community. For more information visit www.greenspringsschool.com. “You can also pick up an application form at any of our campuses in the following locations: Anthony Campus, Lekki Campus, Ikoyi Campus, and Anthos House (Special Needs School), Lekki Phase II, Lagos.