The seventh edition of the 2020 Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards held last Saturday in Lagos with much fanfare and critical acclaim. Chiemelie Ezeobi and Mary Nnah capture the glitz and glamour as African creatives got recognition for their exceptional work and contribution to the movie and film industry in Africa in the past year The African Magic Viewers’ Choice Award (AMVCA) 2020 has come and gone but the euphoria will linger for a long time to come, especially for the winners. Popularly referred to as the African Oscars, the event which took place at the Expo Hall of the Eko Hotel and Suits, Victoria Island, Lagos, was also broadcast live on all Africa Magic channels on DStv and Gotv. With its reach spanning across Africa, the AMVCA has created a phenomenal and impactful platform for the celebration of icons in the film and television industry, up and coming industry stars as well as the fans, who keep the industry alive. This year, which is its seventh edition, was not different as Africa’s top movie stars and filmmakers contended for honours in various voting and non-voting categories in recognition of their exceptional work and contribution to the movie and film industry in Africa in the past year. Glitz and Glamour Aside from creating an avenue to appreciate Africa’s outstanding talents in the movie industry, the glitz and glamour at the seventh AMVCA was second to none. Celebrities, fans, socialites and many big names in the movie industry turned out in their numbers to partake in a night of glamour. Most celebrities turned up at the event looking magnificent. With the men looking dapper, to the ladies in their ball gowns, high slit dresses, the dramatic and demure, most of them stood out. For the ladies, this year was the year of slits as some ran all the way through to their hips. Interestingly, a handful of the celebrities whose attires were flamboyantly made with various ornaments to make them appear extraordinary actually came with helps who held on to the tails of their dresses as they walked around. This was to avoid the dresses sweeping the floor, as well as to prevent other guests from stepping on them. In all, it was indeed an occasion where celebrities let their hair down for the night. However, while many got praises for the attire they wore, many others got knocks. Red Carpet Hosts: Toke Makinwa and Ebuka Obi-Uchendu This year, the duo of Ebuka Obi-Uchendu and Toke Makinwa, held sway as red carpet hosts as they interviewed the glamorous stars and guests that came for the award. Award Hosts: Amina Abdi Rabar and IK Osakioduwa The show was hosted by Nigeria’s IK Osakioduwa and Kenya’s Amina Abdi Rabar. It was a smooth transition for the duo. Headline Sponsor: Amstel Malta Number one premium malt drink, Amstel Malta was the headline sponsor of the biggest film award show to come out of Nigeria, AMVCA. Leading up to the awards, now in its seventh edition, Amstel Malta, delivered on its promise of giving fans an exclusive front-row action to the AMVCAs. The brand kicked off in-store activations across major shopping outlets, surprising shoppers with the most coveted front-row tickets to the AMVCAs. There were more exciting pre-awards activities lined up, next on the list being a sponsored segment hosted by Dakore Egbuson on ‘The Spot’ – a light-hearted, bare-all interview programme – where movie fans connected to their favorite AMVCA nominated actors and actresses, Popular radio personality, Gbemi Olateru-Olagbegi (Gbemi O-O) was the host in yet another fun pre-award activation; fans who were able to guess the titles of the AMVCA-nominated movie soundtracks and scenes played on radio, won branded gifts. Fans were also able to follow in-the-moment, front-row action, live from the AMVCAs on Gbemi O-O’s twitter handle. Speaking at the event Aminah Jagun, Senior Brand Manager, Amstel Malta, said; “Just as the AMVCA has, over the years, stayed true to its promise to support and celebrate outstanding achievements in Film and Television in Nollywood, Amstel Malta has also been a principal supporter for the growth of cinema and Theatre Arts.” Performances AMVCA 2020 was a star-studded celebration of not only African film and TV talent but African fashion, as well as home-grown musical talent and featured amongst many others, live performances from African music icon Innocent ‘2baba’ Idibia and talented vocalists Mercy Aghedo, Adeniyi Timilehin Adeola and Ighwiyisi Jacobs. Winners Best Makeup Category -Lilian Omozele Paul (God Calling) Best Costume Designer – Dimeji Ajibola (Ratnik) Best Picture Editor – Tosin Igho and Byryan Dike (Elevator Baby) Best Sound Editor – Cristina Aragon (Living in Bondage) Best Lighting and Designer – Cardoso (God Calling) Best Cinematographer – John Demps (Living in Bondage) Best Documentary – Beverly Naya (Skin) Best Soundtrack – Larry Gaaga and Flavour (Living in Bondage) Best Writer – Asinogu Nicole and CJ Obasi (Living in Bondage) Best Indigenous Language Swahili – Raveet Sippy Chadha (Subira) Best Indigenous Language Hausa – Muhammad T. Finisher (Tuntube) Best Indigenous Language Yoruba – Yewande Famakin (Alubarika) Best Indigenous Language Series Igbo – Victor Iyke (Nne) Best TV Series Drama/Comedy- Anis Halloway (Truth) Best Short Film or Online Video – Bola ‘Enigma’ Akanbi (Thorn) Best Multichoice Talent Factory Film – Promises (East Africa) Best Movie Southern Africa – Dalitso (Abraham Kabwe) Best Movie East Africa – Plan B (Sarah Hassan) Best Movie West Africa – Living in Bondage (Steve Gukas) Industry Merit Award – Peter Igho Best Supporting Actress in a Movie or TV Series – Gloria sarfo (The Perfect Picture: 10 Years Later) Best Supporting Actor in a Movie or TV Series – Pascal Tokodi (Disconnect) Best Actress in a Comedy – Funke Akindele (Moms At War) Best Actor in a Comedy – Chibunna “Funny Bone” Stanley (Smash) Best Actress in a Drama – Toyin Abraham (Elevator Baby) Best Actor in a Drama – Timini Egbuson (Elevator Baby) Best Dressed Male – Mike Edwards Best Dressed Female – Mercy Eke Trailblazer Award – Swanky J.K.A Best Director – Ramsey Noah (Living in Bondage) Overall Movie – Living in Bondage Trailblazer Award: Swanky JKA Jidekene Achufusi, also known as Swanky JKA, was the winner of the Trailblazer award at the AMVCA 2020 sponsored by Amstel Malta Best Overall Movie: Living in Bondage Living in Bondage was the winner of Best Overall Movie at AMVCA 2020, also winning a cash prize of N1million from Amstel Malta. Best Dressed Awards: Mercy Eke and Mike Edwards Emerge Winners Mercy Eke and Mike Edwards, former reality TV stars were announced best dressed at the AMVCA. A new category was created for the 2020 edition of AMVCA for best-dressed celebrities and the criteria for this category were to be on the red carpet from 4-6 pm as well as take photographs at the official booth provided for the event. The two lucky BBNaija housemates did not only receive plaques for this category, but would also get N500, 000 worth of fashion items. The event, as usual, gave celebrities the opportunity to rock the red carpet in their best costume. Mercy wore two outfits for the event while Mike stunned viewers with just one outfit, which garnered them the awards. Mercy Eke first rocked a sleeveless, three-layered blue and silver dress styled by Swanky Jerry that caught so much attention. She had on a wave-like short hairstyle that highlighted neckline so elegantly. She complemented that with slight blue earrings and nude makeup that didn’t divert attention from her dress. Mike Edwards, on the other hand, showed off the British royalty with his ruffle-sleeved shirt and a velvet tuxedo, portraying a perfect gentleman with his looks. At the end of the night, Mike Edwards was adjudged to be the worthy winner among the best dressed men at the event whilst Mercy Eke was awarded ‘Best Dressed’ woman as their fans obviously voted vigorously for both Pepper Dem housemates, ensuring their favourite celebrities did not go home empty-handed. It was the first time ever that guests would be awarded for turning out in resplendent fashion ensembles at the AMVCAs. The award category was sponsored by Amstel Malta andwinners were voted for by fans on Africa Magic’s Instagram page following a shortlist by the AMVCA Style Council. Amstel Malta’s Fan Reporter Hits AMVCA Red Carpet with her Favourite Stars In line with its promise to give fans exclusive access to the AMVCA, Amstel Malta granted exclusive front row seats and backstage access to their Fan Reporter Bamishe Orafidiya, the winner of the fan reporter contest, at the 7th edition of (AMVCA). The fan reporter contest was a highly competitive Instagram-video-entry style challenge that had a host of aspiring red carpet reporters trying to prove their viability. The entry call began in February and the winner was announced on March 10. Bamishe’s Fan Reporter experience kicked off as soon as she arrived at the event venue. After getting lightly dolled up, she officially began her reporting duties with a series of heartwarming, vlog-style interviews, where she caught up with celebrities and award nominees like Toni Tones, Swanky JKA, and Dakore Egbuson as they glammed up for the red carpet. Following this, she took a break so as to get ready for the red carpet herself. Dressed in a barely sweeping, off-shoulder red dress designed by Bandela, and even more stunning make-up, she spent the red carpet session speaking with and to guests, nominees and top industry players in the ranks of Timini Egbuson, Kemi Adetiba, Toyin Abraham and Blossom Chukwujeku. The fan reporter spent the rest of the night networking and enjoying what was nothing short of an iconic award night. Talking about the experience, Bamishe who is a final year student of Covenant University and an aspiring OAP with Hebron F.M, considered it an opportunity to live out one of her wildest dreams which was precisely what she needed to give her career a boost. “I never imagined that I would be interviewing some of my favorite T.V stars,” she said. “I feel very lucky and excited to have been chosen. Amstel Malta literally gave me a lifetime opportunity on a platter of gold. It’s heartwarming to know that my career is about to take a positive turn and I am looking forward to doing more from here on.” she continued. The Fan Reporter challenge was one of the many initiatives created by Amstel Malta to bring fans closer to the event. Opportunity to Relive AMVCAs this Weekend For those that missed the 7th edition of the AMVCAs, you can still catch up on all the exciting moments including the red carpet extravaganza, performances, and emotional award acceptance speeches on the following channels on DStv and GOtv: Africa Magic Showcase (DStv 151): AMVCA Red Carpet Saturday, March 21 at 1pm AMVCA Live Show Saturday, March 21 at 4pm AMVCA Red Carpet Saturday, March 21 at 2pm AMVCA Live Show Saturday, March 21 at 7pm Africa Magic Urban (DStv 153): AMVCA Red Carpet Saturday, March 21 at 4pm AMVCA Live Show Sunday, March 22 at 10:30am About AMVCA Since its launch in 2013, the AMVCA has become the biggest stage to celebrate African talents in film and television. The AMVCA is an annual event by Multichoice and Africa Magic, which recognises and honours film and television talents across the African continent. Winners often emerge through votes by members of the public. Tagged, Africa’s premiere television and film industry event of the year, now in its seventh edition, the show has grown even bigger with top contenders from across the continent vying for honors in the voting and non-voting categories. According to Channel Director, Africa Magic Channels, Wangi Mba-Uzoukwu, the AMVCAS present an avenue to celebrate another year of excellent work by African talents in film and television.