By Martins Ifijeh A Lagos lawyer, Femi Falana has stated that the dethronement of the former Emir of Kano, Malam Sanusi Lamido Sanusi by the Kano State government cannot stand in any court if challenged. Speaking on Arise TV, a sister broadcast station of THISDAY Newspapers Tuesday, he said apart from the way and manner he was dethroned and banished, the state government never accused him of corruption. He said: “It was only last week the Kano State House of Assembly opened investigation into alleged corrupt practices against him. The Kano State anti-graft agency found him liable and he has gone to court. He was still in court when this charade happened. “Sanusi was not given fair hearing. The Kano State House of Assembly had not concluded investigations on him, and worse still, the state government did not issue him any query this time around. For that, there is no way his dethronement can stand in any court. “The state knows what it has done cannot stand in court, that is why the former Emir was banished so that he will not challenge what has been done to him,” Falana said. He emphasized that the deposed Emir needs to reorganise himself and think of other ways to serve humanity. He said it was baffling that at a time the country was going through serious economic challenges, it decided to embarrass one of the people that should help savage the economy. Falana said: “I would have thought now that we are facing very serious economic problem, the country will be assembling the likes of Sanusi to help out. “Yesterday, the price of fuel fell to $31, whereas our budget is anchored on about $57. This development should normally force the government to go to the drawing board in order for us not to go into another economic recession. But the government of the day is busy with irrelevant issues such as deposing traditional rulers. Even the ruling party is fighting over who should be its chairman.” “Nigeria has claimed that the economy is diversified, but the more they say so, the more heavily dependent we seem to become on crude oil.” He stressed that the dethronement of Sanusi was anchored on 2023 politics, noting that the leaders were yet to tackle the huge economic challenge of this year, but was busy fighting over 2023 politics.