Mobile Classroom, the first indigenous mobile application, which enables students to learn audio-visually through devices like phones and computers, has offered all Nigerian secondary school students free access to its online portal without subscription for the period of the suspension of academic activities in schools nationwide. According to the Chief Executive Officer of Save-A-Lot Limited and the originator of the app, Mr. Akeem Salami, “Mobile Classroom online portal has been declared free without subscription for Nigerian students throughout this period of nationwide school closure by the federal government. “To us, Mobile Classroom will be a great learning hub for millions of Nigerian students, particularly those who will be sitting for their senior secondary school examinations.” Salami explained that the subscription-free mobile classroom offer is easy to be part of; “students are to register to log-in by downloading Mobile Classroom App from Google Playstore using their mobile phones. For those who prefer laptops, they can go through the registration process logging-in through our website www.mobileclassroom.com.ng. All participants are to sign-in with their functional email addresses and choice passwords. Students can then access lectures on any topic and subject of their choice and enjoy different lectures in the comfort of their homes.” According to the initiator of the app, “this is the best moment parents and students will enjoy the support of a mobile classroom to save lost moments after paying tuition. This is coming at no cost for them within this emergency break. “In the mobile classroom, students can select topics and the yeacher will pop up right on their device to teach them within the comfort of their homes. This platform is hereby declared free for this period as the world manages the pandemic.” He advised students to stay away from crowded gatherings to avoid the risk of possible spread of the infection.
“We are making an effort to reach out to all state ministries of education to communicate this opportunity to their respective students across the federation.”