Daji Sani in Yola The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, has described COVID-19 as more vicious than Boko Haram, as the disease is capable of wiping out a whole city within the shortest time. The SGF, who disclosed this at the Yola International Airport in Adamawa State, noted that Nigerians should strictly adhere to the advice and directives on the virus. According to him, “As dreaded as Boko Haram, COVID-19 is more vicious, as one afflictions or infection can wipe out a city within the shortest time frame. “Hence, Nigerians should strictly adhere to these warnings such as keeping social distance, avoid hands shake and observed personal hygiene.” Mustapha said it is not disobedience to greet others from a distance, which is just to prevent the spread of the disease. The SGF added that he was in the state to commiserate with Garkida’s people over the unfortunate attack on them recently. Meanwhile, the Adamawa state Governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, has taken drastic measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the state in a statewide broadcast, noting that it was meant to update the people on the current development on the virus in the state. According to him, “There was no case of Coronavirus in the state, but for precautionary measures, the state government has taken serious measures to prevent the disease from spreading into the state. “Fellow citizens, it is with a profound sense of responsibility that I address you on an issue that is no longer news, a pandemic.” “Nigeria, and indeed, Adamawa State is not left out in revving up the attention necessary to contain or prevent the spread of the pandemic.” He said as part of the efforts to control, prevent, and contain the spread, an isolation centre equipped with monitors has already been prepared at the Yola Specialist Hospital. “Adamawa State does not have a single confirmed case of COVID-19, but the preparation of the isolation centre, rigorous screening at the airports, parks, other entry points and a fast track connection with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) whenever a case is detected, buttresses the government readiness to tackle this challenge headlong,” he said The governor said the state government has consider a work-holiday for all categories of staff except those on essential services till further notice, adding that the state government has since directed that all public and private primary, secondary and tertiary institution should close before March 27, 2020.