Babs Cardini Babatunde Kasumu Tinubu, better known as Babs Cardini, is a teenager with the exceptional ability and gift to do magic. He gained the celebrity status after he was featured on BBC and he has never looked back since, with the likes of Reuters, CGTN, Genevieve Magazine, featuring him as well. It is safe to say that the young magician is the biggest so far in the world of magic as a form of entertainment in Africa in this century. He talks to Tosin Clegg about magic, growing into a household name, his plans, career at large and much more My style of magic appeals to a wide range of audience I knew that I would become a magician and believed I was gifted with the ability, hence I acquainted myself with Magic. I love playing with people’s minds and emotions by performing tricks and illusions for them when they least expected. I like making people believe in the impossible and leaving them amazed, sometimes leaving them confused. But in the end, it is all about making people happy. Moreover, creating magic on stage, be it illusion, mental class act and hypnotism, can be termed in a word as magic. My style of magic and the presentation of my routines appeal to a wide range of audience. My childhood was pretty amazing I was given the best of care and attention by my parents who always encouraged their kids to chase, as well as aspire high from academics to creatives. I’m the second of three siblings of my mother; my family is relatively large. A phase of my dream is what I’m living now, being a magician, whilst I believe the other is near (hope to be a robotics engineer), so as to fuse magic and technology to achieve the ultimate goal of making, holding my audience spellbound during the course of entertaining them. I recently completed my OND at Yaba Tech where I studied computer engineering. My journey into the world of magic My journey into the world of magic started from when I was five years old and that’s if I’m not mistaken. I was always interested and fascinated by magicians when watching their performances on television. Magic caught and called out to me from then. To be honest, it was only recently, when my manager, Mr. Ono Mccaulay, reached out to me and made me understand that my creativity and talent in magic could take me to places if I believed. It was then I geared up to do more. Magic, first for me, will always be something I will forever enjoy doing for fun. It is relaxing and I do it to make other people feel happy. My challenges My challenges were huge at the beginning and that was because I had no one that shared my dreams for magic as a means of entertainment here unlike how it is in other countries. I had no financial aid to get materials, no connection for visibility and so much more. But as God would have it, I was approached by a believer that shared the same passion I have for magic and the rest they say is history. It beats me that it had to take a foreign media, BBC, to put me out for the world to see and appreciate what I do, before our own media started to open up. Don’t get me wrong, we are still trying to break through and hold our ground for acceptance just like my forebears- respect to the late Professor Peller in the late 80s and 90s. Inspiration comes from God Although I am young but I believe getting better takes nothing but constant practice, research, looking into those before me. Candidly speaking, I don’t think I have accomplished anything yet, for I only just began my journey, when there’s any accomplished feat, Nigeria and the world would hear. Though there are lots I sometimes relish in and relive, but I would say my breakout point would be when I was given the opportunity to perform at the then One Lagos fiesta and I made a page in a book vanish and reappeared in a spectator’s pocket. The crowd went wild with cheers and amazement and I couldn’t believe my eyes. Fame is like a double-edged sword I was raised by my parents to be calm, no matter what and in addition to that, I am signed to a management that constantly instill the essence of what being humble would do for an individual. Dealing with fame is for those that see themselves as being famous, for I can tell you for free that I am not. I have been told that fame is like a double-edged sword or a coin with two sides; there’s the good side likewise the not so good part to it. Our true characters and personality as individuals would be enhanced when little attention is shown our way. Thanks to my management Through my management I have been fortunate enough and I have graced platforms. I’m still going to grace more but I’ll use this opportunity to say a big thank you to Alibaba’s January 1st Concert and Spontaneity, Sir Aremo Oniru’s Concert, Hennessy Artistry, Traceinthecity Tour, Stefflondon Concert, Zlatan Concert, Mike Adenuga’s Private Party, Sujimoto Anniversary to mention but a few. All the shows I have had the opportunity to perform at hold different experience for me, as they aren’t the same, plus the approach to my performances tend to differ as well. In essence, I would say they are all big in their own rights. My management is working round the clock and that is to make sure the brand has tie-ins to major household brand products’ names and corporate bodies. I have some tours already lined up, but for the recent epidemic it would have commenced. I’m trying to create a television series based on my magic performance with various people I get to meet in the streets, known people during the course of my travels. God willing, I see myself as a global brand representing the motherland Nigeria and Africa as a whole with my craft on a positive scale.