In view of the rising wave of insecurity in the country, a holding company, Rector Group of Companies, has launched an innovation, ‘Kasala App’, to strengthen the safety of Nigerians. Kasala works as an emergency alert and tracking app, that is designed to keep citizens safe, protected and confident especially in their most vulnerable moment. Managing Director of Rector Group of Companies, Onyedikachi Erete, pointed out that the alarming figure of casualties from security challenges continued to pose a danger to the polity, adding that it was important for Nigerians to screw up their personal security. “The escalation of insecurity across the country as of today is unpleasant and indeed worrisome. Everyday, it is one news of kidnapping, armed robbery or bloodshed. Crime rate is at an all-time high. The Nigeria Police Force reports that between January and April, 2019, at least 685 persons were kidnapped across the country. Another report revealed that over 8,000 were widowed, 16,000 children orphaned, 5,000 people killed while 9,000 more were injured since 2009 as a result of banditry. “Insecurity related to gender violence is also on the surge while statistics from transportation accidents is not plummeting,” he said. Erete noted that despite the fact that safety and law agencies were grasping at straws to save the situation, responses have been low while crime rates continued to increase. He said that the new app, which can be accessed via kasalaapp.com, would enable citizens to notify security agencies and or loved ones before, during or after emergency and dangerous situations. Describing the solution further, he explained: “Kasala which is available on App Store and Google Play uses the latest location and GPS service tracking technology. It allows one to select emergency contacts that can respond when one or loved ones are in distress. It also has a built-in feature to activate an alert. The app lets one live-stream an event, and while live streaming feature is in use, the audio and video are also automatically recorded and sent to select guardians or security agents in real time. “Its innovative features make one feel safer in the case of an ill-fated event, especially when one needs an instant response from loved ones or security agents in one’s proximity. Its most advanced and reliable personal safety feature is its ability to let one sends SOS alarms to other Kasala app users anywhere and anytime around one to come for one’s rescue. The app can be used to report cases such as rape, domestic violence, accidents, robbery, kidnapping and fire. It can also be used for public safety and community policing”.