Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State has described the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state as an assembly of “violence-proned, confused and disorganised set of politicians who should never be trusted with the responsibility of governing the state again.” APC, in a statement yesterday by its Directorate of Publicity, Research and Strategy, Barr. Kunle Oyatomi, and made available to newsmen in Osogbo, the state capital, said the Governor Gboyega Oyetola-led administration has been promoting peace and tranquility in Osun State. The ruling party’s statement was coming in view of what transpired between Adagunodo and Adeleke’s camps which led to the arrest of eight members of the party who were later ordered by a Magistrate Court in Osogbo to be remanded in Ilesa Correctional Centre for allegedly attempting to kill two chieftains of the PDP in the state. “We strongly warn the PDP to stop breaching the peace of the state by causing chaos in the guise of political meetings. “It is a pity that Osun State PDP leaders lacked managerial skills and understanding on how to put their house in order and manage internal crisis affecting the party. A poor crisis manager who cannot unite and protect its members cannot be trusted with the responsibility of governing the state. “People could still remember that during its tenure, the PDP-led administration promoted chaos, terror and violence to an unimaginable level. “Since PDP’s exit from power, however, peace returned to Osun. Our people have from 2010 embraced the peace and harmony that APC government heralded. “It has been shown to the whole world that this state values, enjoys and promotes harmonious living among its various peoples. “This is one of the cardinal programmes of the APC government. Ours is not a government that fans the embers of disquiet, discord and chaos. “Government of APC under the leadership of Alhaji Adegboyega Oyetola will do everything humanly possible to sustain the atmosphere of peace and tranquility that have become the state’s hallmark in the last nine years,” the statement said. The party noted that while the governor “is busy protecting citizens of Osun, PDP leaders are busy sending their members to prison,” adding that “the difference is so obvious between the light and darkness.”