By Kingsley Nwezeh The Nigerian Army Council has approved the promotion of three army officers to their next ranks. One Army Warrant Officer (AWO) and Master Warrant Officer (MWO) were promoted to the rank of Captain while one Master Warrant Officer was promoted to the rank of Army Warrant Officer. Those promoted are Army Warrant Officer Nwabueze Agbo; Master Warrant Officer, Tijjani Namadi (the duo were promoted to the rank of Captain) and Master Warrant Officer Ibrahim Zakaria promoted to the rank of Army Warrant Officer. An Army Headquarters’ statement said the promoted officers “were found to be professionally worthy for the elevation and are hereby, on merit, promoted to the rank of Captain and Army Warrant Officer respectively as approved by the Army Council” While decorating the newly promoted officers at the weekend, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai commended them for their selfless service and loyalty to the nation and urged other soldiers to imbibe their sterling qualities in the discharge of their constitutional/assigned responsibilities. Buratai further enjoined them to sustain and impart discipline, hardwork and regimentation to younger officers in their new units. Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries, Captain Nwabueze Agbo thanked Buratai for transforming the Nigerian Army to the present enviable standard. According to him “Lt. Gen. Buratai’s inputs in terms of doctrine, organisation, training and orbat review of the Nigerian Army has made us to really understand the army better and thus placed it in a better position to checkmate current and emerging security challenges”. “In terms of welfare of troops and their families, when you slashed school fees in command schools, you made our families happy and encouraged our children to go to school”, he said. He said: “Your infrastructural development, construction of accommodation and renovation of our living quarters in almost all Nigerian Army barracks across Nigeria has further made us happier and to live longer. “When you introduced barracks investment initiative programme, you empowered and made our families industrious and self relient”. “Finally sir, your feeding programme especially at the army headquarters really enhances our performances in the discharge of our tasks”.