Christopher Isiguzo in Enugu, Chinedu Eze, Martins Ifijeh in Lagos and Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja More than 164, 000 people have been infected by Coronavirus globally and over 6, 000 have died from the virus, according to Worldometers compilation of government announcement. However, more countries are tightening control as part of measures to curb the rising spread of the disease, which has hit virtually all continents.
Spain, for instance, placed the country on lockdown yesterday after more than 100 deaths were reported in Austria and Philippines resort, with an overall 2,000 new cases across the country. Kazakhstan announced a state of emergency in a bid to contain the outbreak.
In Austria, the government banned gatherings of more than five people as Philippines sealed off Manila in the most aggressive response to the pandemic yet seen in South-east Asia. Kenya, on its part, yesterday unveiled a series of strict measures to curb Coronavirus spread, blocking entry to the country to all except citizens and residents and shutting schools as the number of confirmed cases rose to three. In Britain, the number of deaths of Britons with Coronavirus jumped by 14 in the last 24 hours to 35, while the number of people diagnosed rose by 20 per cent to 1,372, health authorities said. The British government said earlier it would step up its response to the crisis, including isolating older people “in the coming weeks Ghana Imposes Travel Restriction to all Travellers As part of efforts to curb the spread of the disease, Ghana yesterday imposed travel restriction on all travellers, except Ghanaians or those resident in Ghana, coming into the country following six confirmed cases of Coronavirus recorded by the country. Ghanaian Minister of Information, Kojo Oppong Nkrumah, said in a statement that “all travel to Ghana is strongly discouraged until further notice.”
According to him, any traveller, except for Ghanaian citizens and persons with Ghana residence permits, who, within the last I4 days has been to a country that has recorded at least 200 cases of Covid-l9, will not be admitted into the Ghanaian jurisdiction. “Airlines are instructed not to allow such persons to embark. Border posts are instructed not to allow such persons into the jurisdiction,” he added. Nkrumah said there would be a mandatory 14-day self-quarantine for persons who are otherwise allowed to enter the Ghanaian jurisdiction. He added that guidelines for self-quarantine would be available at the various Ghanaian ports of entry, stressing that enforcement protocols are being deployed in collaboration with state security and health authorities. “Persons determined to be unable to satisfactorily self-quarantine will be quarantined by the State. Any admissible traveller, who exhibits symptoms of Covid-l9 will be quarantined and tested upon reaching Ghana,” Nkrumah added. Enugu Coronavirus Suspect Tests Negative The patient who was quarantined in Enugu on suspicion of coronavirus has tested negative for the disease. The Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) disclosed this in a tweet last night. The centre had earlier said the result of the test conducted on the patient would be available on Monday but on Sunday night, it made the status of the patient known. “The laboratory result of the patient in Enugu suspected to have #COVID19 is NEGATIVE. It is important to wait for confirmation from NCDC before spreading information on social media. NCDC will continue to provide updates to the public,” the tweet read. The state government had earlier confirmed that it had quarantined a female septuagenarian suspected to be down with the dreaded Covid-19 at its isolation centre within the capital city. The woman was said to have returned from United Kingdom recently and showed signs of having contacted the dreaded virus. Following this development, the state government has released the sum of N20 million to the management of the State Isolation Centre to ensure that the facilities are optimally ready to deal with the situation and any other emergency that may arise over the weekend. A statement by the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Chidi Aroh, stated that Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has provided the required leadership and logistic support to ensure that the state Ministry of Health and the Emergency Operation Centre are functioning at optimal level and fully ready to deal with any emergency in the state. UAE Bans Nigerians, Others The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has also restricted access to the country, banning travellers from Nigeria, among others, from coming in. The Emirates issued a statement yesterday, saying some countries can still get visa on arrival in Dubai International, according to Dubai Airports Authority. This was confirmed by the source close to the Emirates in Nigeria, who explained that it was part of the process to protect the country’s borders from the pandemic. “I can confirm that it is true. I received the information. Every government is trying to protect its own country because the disease is gradually affecting everybody. So they have to protect their borders. “Passengers with passports from the following countries can continue to travel to and from the UAE, but they may be subject to additional screening,” the source said. THISDAY learnt that from today, UAE would stop issuing visa to citizens whose countries were banned from travelling to the Middle East country, after utilisation of the current visa, such persons would not be allowed to travel to the country. The countries include Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brunei, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece and Hong Kong. Others include Hungary, Island, Ireland, Italy (from Rome only), Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, Monaco, Netherland, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania and Sam Marino. The rest include, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, The Vatican, United Kingdom and the United States. Meanwhile, more countries in Africa have banned passengers from certain countries from entering their borders. South Africa has also placed travel ban on UK, US and others and revoked those already issued.