Peter Uzoho The Ikeja Electric (IE) Plc has announced that no physical transaction of business will take place across offices in its franchise network for the next one week. It said the partial closure was in line with the ongoing efforts nationwide to prevent further spread of the dreaded COVID-19 pandemic and to protect its customers and staff. The Disco, in a statement explained that the partial closure, which took effect from Tuesday, was part of precautionary measures necessitated by the need to safeguard the health of customers and staff by limiting their exposure to the deadly virus. “The spread of the virus, according to World Health Organisation (WHO), is believed to be mainly through person-to-person contact, which enables respiratory droplets from infected individuals, who exhibit or later show symptoms such as coughing, sneezing, breathing difficulty, fever etc., to be transmitted to other persons,” IE said. Meanwhile, the power distributing firm has reassured its teeming customers that services including supply of electricity to them, fault clearing, online channels for purchase of energy credits and payment of bills are unaffected by the temporary closure. It said customers can continue to make enquiries or complaints to its Customers Care Team via email, live chat or phone calls. The acting Chief Executive Officer of of Ikeja Electric, Mrs Folake Soetan, noted that the safety and health of employees and members of the public is a priority to the organisation. According to Soetan, “therefore, necessary preventive measures have be taken to avoid possible contact and spread of the virus. “In line with our Customer First, Technology Now policy, all staff carrying out essential services will continue to deliver services in line with globally accepted safety and health requirements, while staff carrying out non-essential services will hereby rely on our remote working channels throughout this period”. She added: “As a responsible organisation, we hold our customers and staff in high esteem. So, their wellbeing and safety must be prioritized under the circumstance confronting our country and the entire world. “The ongoing efforts to control the further spread of the COVID-19 virus is in line with efforts of governments globally to contain the virus. “At this point, we all need to carefully observe precautionary measures and other safety protocols stipulated by government agencies and health organisations that will protect ourselves and loved ones from the virus.”