Mary Nnah There was so much excitement in the air as Nigerians, especially women, and their counterparts across the world celebrated the 2020 edition of Mother’s Day. In a very historic and significant way, Three Crowns,Nigeria’s Number One low cholesterol milk brand, pampered Nigerian mothers with a treat on Mother’s Day as part of its unique celebration of Mother’s Day 2020. To this end, it flagged off a campaign in which conversations were generated around the struggles which mothers go through to ensure that their families progress against all odds. The conversations were geared to let people remember and appreciate their mums as the heart of the home; and the campaign, among other things, prepared the ground for the brand’s strategic Mum of the Year campaign planned for later in the year. Participants shared their stories and generated conversations to underscore how mum’s love is priceless, considering that in many homes, mums go the extra mile to support their husbands; or weather the storms all alone to take care of their families especially in the event of a loss of a spouse. This campaign is very much in line with Three Crowns’ renowned gesture of acknowledging and celebrating mums as the heart of the family by inspiring them to eat well and live healthy so as to keep their families healthy and happy – in appreciation and celebration of the fact that when mums are healthy, families are happy! Giving an insight into the campaign, Brand Manager, Three Crowns, Chioma Igwe, explained that the brand is always mindful of the fact that “Mums sometimes undervalue their own needs for a great health; they go through struggles to ensure the family progresses against all odds; and there is therefore the need to acknowledge and reward her labor of love as the Heart of the home.” According to her, “mums will be appreciated as being the Heart of the Home by sharing stories of her struggles and her impact in the family to the larger society, and this is the main thrust of this campaign.” She stressed that, “this campaign aims to reward mothers or mother figures who, despite being less-privileged, widowed, financially challenged and physically challenged have positively impacted their families and the society. The ultimate goal of the campaign is to reward mothers’ labour of love.” It would be recalled that Mother’s Day is a celebration honouring the mother of the family, as well as motherhood, maternal bonds, and the influence of mothers in the society. It is celebrated on various days in many parts of the world, most commonly in the months of March or May. This explains why the Three Crowns 2020 Mother’s Day campaign would run from March to May, 2020. Three Crowns milk is a leading Nigerian brand from the stable of FrieslandCampina WAMCO, the country’s largest dairy company and has been in Nigeria for over 60 years. Three Crowns has, for three decades, nourished mothers and their families with essential vitamins and minerals that support their well-being. The brand has thus given itself the patriotic task of encouraging women to eat and live healthy, thereby making the family happy.