The HMD Global has introduced three new Nokia smartphones into the Nigerian market. The Nokia 8.3 5G was the first 5G Nokia smartphone added to the portfolio and is joined by the brand-new Nokia 5.3 and Nokia 1.3, as well as the latest addition to the Originals family, the Nokia 5310. Sticking with firsts, HMD Global also enters a brand-newservice category with HMD Connect global data roaming, its innovative and hassle-free service that keeps customers connected to the things that matter most. The Chief Executive Officer, HMD Global, Florian Seiche, said: “I am incredibly proud of the innovations we have introduced that will build on our unique commitment to ensuring the Nokia smartphone experience will only get better over time. Today we are kicking off a new chapter for HMD Global as we step into 5G with a truly global, future-proof smartphone. Combined with the launch of HMD Connect, we are creating a truly seamless experience in terms of connectivity.” According to Chief Product Officer, HMD Global, Juho Sarvikas, “We take great pride in working with our partners to deliver unique devices. That’s why we are excited to announce a number of firsts with this launch. With the help of the Qualcomm Snapdragon 765G Modular Platform, we have created a truly global 5G Nokia smartphone that’s designed with cost, usability and future-proofing in mind. Not only does the Qualcomm 5G solution enable to us condense more than 40 different radio frequency components in a single module, the Nokia 8.3 5G also features the highest number of 5G New Radio bands from 600hmz all the way up to 3.8GHz – meaning it is a truly global and future-proof device.” Sarvikas added: “Together with Google we have managed to introduce an impressively accessible Android (Go edition) device with the Nokia 1.3 – one of the first smartphones to launch with Camera Go and running Android 10 Go edition. The new Nokia 5.3 takes powerful features like the quad camera and Qualcomm Snapdragon 665 Mobile Platform and puts these at the fingertips of an even wider pool of fans.” President, Qualcomm, Cristiano Amon, said: “We are proud to support HMD Global in announcing their new 5G device – one of the first commercially announced devices to be based on the Qualcomm Snapdragon 765G Modular Platform. We developed this platform to help bring 5G experiences to everyone and give time to market advantages to our customers – it is a highly integrated solution based on the world’s first-announced mobile platform with integrated 5G, coupled with an advanced Radio Frequency module to create a truly global 5G solution.”