By John Shiklam The Christian Elders Forum of Northern States (NOSCEF) has said it is disappointed with the federal government for failing to tackle insurgency and banditry across the country, especially in the north where people are killed or abducted almost on a daily basis. In a statement issued on Sunday at the end of its executive meeting which held on Saturday in Kaduna,
the Christian body expressed deep concern over the increasing activities of bandits and terrorists in the country. The statement signed by NOSCEF chairman, Elder Ejoga Inalegwu, called on northern governors to take a cue from their southwest counterparts by setting up a security outfit to stop the killings. “Rising from our executive meeting held in Kaduna on Saturday, March 6, 2020, NOSCEF expresses deep concern over the increasing activities of bandits and terrorists occasioned by widespread killings across the nation.
“The most recent of these killings took place in Garkida, Adamawa state, Igabi and Giwa in Kaduna state and Kwande local government area of Benue state, among others. “NOSCEF joins other patriotic Nigerians in condemning the unending insecurity which has resulted in so much loss of lives and destruction of property ” the statement said. According to the forum, “The failure of the current security apparatus , calls for a complete overhaul of the security architecture to reflect the diversity of the nation, so as to win the confidence of the people”.
It noted that “Ironically, almost all the security chiefs are from a section of the country which is worst hit by the criminals who are unleashing mayhem on the people”. It said “the spate of killings and insecurity has continued to worsen thereby destroying economic and social activity of the people.” “NOSCEF is also disappointed about the seeming inability of the federal government to remedy the situation by taking far reaching steps to address it. “NOSCEF also wishes to state that it has not seen any attempt by the federal government to remedy the skewed appointments that have failed to reflect the religious and ethnic diversity of the nation. “Rather, we continue to witness the replacement of even the few appointees outside the nepotistic enclave by those already dominating. The appointments have been particularly unfair to the Northern Christians,” Ejoga said. The statement however commended the governor of Borno state, Prof. Babagana Zulum, for identifying and standing with his people against terrorism, lauding that “his openness to all and commitment to good governance.” The forum appealled to the Northern governors to “emulate their South West counterparts, who recently established a joint security outfit, known as ‘Amotekun’ to address security challenges facing their region, by setting up a similar outfit in the north to put an end to the menace of terrorism and banditry, which is ravaging the north and destroying her socio economic activities. “Since the federal government has failed in carrying out its constitutional responsibility of securing lives and properties of its citizens, the governors must evolve ways of providing security for their people.
The statement also repeated calls for the release of Leah Sharibu who was abducted by the Boko Haram insurgents about two years ago. “We expectantly, still await the federal government to facilitate the release of Leah Sharibu, who has been in captivity in the hands of Boko Haram for over two years, without forgetting the fate of the remaining Chibok girls also in their custody,” Ejoga said. The statement appealed to all Nigerians to continue to pray for the country for God’s intervention.