Mary Nnah The Mayor of the City of Stonecrest, Georgia, USA, Jason Lary has been scheduled to be in Lagos, Nigeria as a keynote speaker at the Startups Africa 2020 conference for female entrepreneurs holding in March 27 and 28, 2020 in Lagos. The event themed “Unleashing the Power of African Female Entrepreneurs” is a two-day business conference targeted at improving, inspiring and empowering over 2000 female entrepreneurs in Africa. In his acceptance letter, Mayor Jason Lary said, “I am honoured to participate in this incredible event. I truly believe in women empowerment. I have honoured many women for their outstanding accomplishments and contributions to the city of Stonecrest and beyond.” Lary expressed his happiness to be in Nigeria for the conference adding that his vision for women through the “Mayor Lary’s Udemy Skills Challenge”, to empower in Africa aligns with the operating pillars of The Startups Africa and Felix King Foundation. Speaking further on his effort towards lifting African American women, the Pan Africanist, he said, “We assist women in launching as entrepreneurs in a partnership project through Allen Entrepreneurial Institute (AEI), which is a business incubator division called the AEI startup factory. And I see a huge opportunity for African female entrepreneurs in this space.” Another top-tier speaker to join the Startups Africa’s conference 2020, is the current Nigeria’s Minister for Women Affairs, Mrs. Pauline Tallen. The minister will deliver keynote address at the conference. Other speakers include Arese Egwu, the author of the ground-breaking novel, The Smart Woman, Mira Mehta, CEO of Tomato Jos and Jeffrey Williams-Edem, a Sales growth expert and life coach. The conference is aimed at bringing together over 2,000 female African start-up and scale-up entrepreneurs, world class mentors, business experts, investors, government leaders and the media to support and encourage female-led businesses. According to the convener of The Startups Africa, Dr. Felix King Eiremiokhae, Founder of Felix King Foundation, Mayor Lary is an Africanist and will be bringing huge entrepreneurial knowledge to the conference, having involved in series of the entrepreneurial activities in the City of Stonecrest, Georgia, USA. Eiremiokhae said, “We are hopeful that Mayor Lary’s visits to Nigeria will open doors of opportunities for women entrepreneurs in Africa. “One of the objectives of this programme is to facilitate the growth and success of women-led businesses by providing them with pitching, training, and mentorship and networking opportunities.” The conference is designed to unite female startup entrepreneurs in all stages of business development, exposing them to topics and subject areas in branding and marketing; networking and business strategy as well as organisational structure and access to market. Participants will acquire new knowledge on actionable strategies to build and grow world-class businesses. The event will feature keynote addresses, top-tier speakers, masterclasses, expert discussions, training by Dr. Jacqueline Mohair, the chancellor of TIUA School of business, Georgia, USA and a business-pitching session where the winners with revolutionary ideas will win up to $10,000 in seed funding and exposure to world’s Venture capitalist such as Faster Capitalist, UAE. The Startups Africa conference is an initiative of Felix King Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation that helps African women through different entrepreneurial support programs and ideas that create opportunities for a better community.