Kuni Tyessi in Abuja In commemorating 60 years of Nigeria’s independence come October 1, a book titled “60 Years, 60 Voices- Essays on Nigeria at 60” is set to be launched as a remarkable milestone worthy of significant documentation. The book which is a collection of essays will serve as a social mobilisation tool to address critical issues surrounding the nation’s sociocultural, political and economic evolution from independence to present day and is expected to chart a way forward for the progress of nationhood. The coordinator of African Centre for Media and Information Literacy (AFRICMIL), DR,. Chido Onumah who made the disclosure in Abuja, said contribution to the work will be done by young Nigerians spread accross the 36 states and the FCT. He said the contributors who must not be above 50 years will enumerate progressive ideas about building a united and egalitarian society as they stand as active citizens who will inspire and rekindle hope and bring the country out of its current depressing situation. He lamented the spate of insecurity which he said has steadily worsened and with over 1.9 million people being displaced as a result of insurgency since 2009 while noting less than 25,794 persons have been killed between 2015 and 2019. “On October 1, 2020, Nigeria will celebrate her 60th year of political independence. Our diamond jubilee is a remarkable milestone worthy of significant documentation, even as the country is deeply immersed in the crisis of nationhood. In furtherance to this objective, the African Center for Media and Information Literacy (AFRICMIL) and partners are launching this initiative which seeks to produce a book of 60 essays by using young Nigerians to address our problems as a nation. “These essays will examine the options open to us, suggest solutions and how to actualize them. The essays will take a critical look at the country’s democratic experiment since independence in 1960, where the country is today and some of the major issues that have dogged the country’s match to genuine democracy and nationhood. “Many Nigerians argue that the major problem facing the country is leadership, and that if nothing is done to ensure purposeful leadership, the country will disintegrate. This fear is not misplaced. Our political leaders have failed to serve as the rallying point for national unity, nation building and cohesion. “Nigeria has been described as a nation of great potentials:but it has remained essentially that in the last sixty years. After a civil war, several successful and unsuccessful coups and thirty one years of civilian rule, clearly the leadership challenge can partly be blamed for our inability to actualize the hope citizens felt at independence sixty years ago.”