Amby Uneze in Owerri In spite of the government directives that large crowd of people are not allowed to converge in a place because of Coronavirus, relations, friends and well-wishers of commissioners and aides gathered at the Ahiajoku Convention Centre in Owerri to witness their swearing-in ceremony on Monday. At the event, Governor Hope Uzodinma charged the newly sworn-in 23 commissioners, and 89 special advisers and senior special assistants to bring to the fore their wealth of experience to drive the shared vision of prosperity of his administration which is anchored on the 3Rs of Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Recovery. Uzodinma called on the appointees to see their appointments as a privilege they could not afford to abuse. Assigning portfolios to the commissioners later at the Government House, the governor urged them to hit the ground running. He said: “It is important that you don’t take the oath of office as a mere ritual, you must take every word there seriously. You owe it a duty to Imo people and God to ensure that you don’t fail in your assignment. You are now a magnifying glass with which the public will see our government.” He warned that he would not hesitate to sack any appointee who indulges in actions that would smear the image of the government in any form or shape. Uzodinma added: “Your actions and inactions going forward from today matters a lot. All those things you have done in the past that did not matter before should be mattered now. You must watch what you say or do as a government representative. Any action that is capable of bringing government to ridicule will be unacceptable to us.” While encouraging the commissioners, special advisers and senior special assistants to justify the confidence reposed on them, the governor expressed confidence that coming back from the three days retreat, “they must have been equipped with new and modern innovations that will help drive the economy of the state.” The governor further enjoined them to instill discipline in their places of work. “You must constantly bear in mind that the only way you can instill discipline in your place of work, be it ministry or agency is to be an epitome of discipline yourself.” He reiterated that welfare of civil servants and entire Imo work force would continue to be among the top priorities of his administration. He noted: “To this end, it is important to make it absolutely clear that I have never broken, will never break my promise of making sure that workers salaries are paid before the end of the month.”