•NWC not factionalised, ruling party insists Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja and Segun James in Lagos The forum of State Chairmen of All Progressives Congress (APC) has passed a vote of confidence on the embattled National Chairman of the party, Mr. Adams Oshiomhole.
But the South-south APC stakeholders have said it is in the interest of the party to put the era of his chairmanship behind it and move forward with new leadership. The forum in a statement issued yesterday in Abuja, and jointly signed by its Chairman, Hon. Ali Dolari, and Secretary, Dr. Ben Nwoye, after its meeting, said it was backing Oshiomhole to defend the sanctity of the constitution of the party and its supremacy. The forum noted that it frowned upon the level of impunity being experienced in the party in which, unauthorised individuals would issue press statements using the name of the party to deceive its leaders and the unsuspecting public, thereby causing disaffection among the party leadership. It added that all individuals involved in this practice should be mindful that their conduct is prohibited under the party’s constitution.
The forum said: “We have therefore resolved to ward off all perceived and real threats by detractors and enemies of our great party to inhibit the implementation of democratic ethos as currently being championed by our indefatigable Mr. Adams Oshiomhole and which, has given sleepless nights to the opposition party.” The forum noted that the fight for personal interests was nothing but a purposeful distraction to President Muhammadu Buhari.
It said the removal of Oshiomhole would not improve the conditions of APC supporters or those of Nigerians, adding that it would only satisfy the vindictive tendencies of a privileged few who might have been offended by the embattled chairman.
“The state chairmen being members of NEC and critical stakeholders of our party dissociate ourselves from the ongoing brigandage intended to disorganise the peace we have been enjoying in the party. These acts, if successful, would only weaken the political strength of our great party,” it added. According to the forum, the party is bigger than the inordinate ambition of any individual and as such, it would not tolerate any unlawful step by those igniting crisis in the party.
“We, therefore, pass a vote of confidence on the national leadership of the party under Mr. Adams Aliu Oshiomhole for his quality, purposeful and directional leadership,” it added. Also, the Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Finance, Hon. James Faleke, has said 80 per cent of lawmakers in the House support Oshiomhole, saying that plots to destabilise the party would not succeed.
Faleke in a statement yesterday urged those involved in the plot to remove Oshiomhole to focus on major national issues and end the current leadership crisis rocking the ruling party. The Lagos State chapter of the APC also expressed support for Oshiomhole.
In a statement issued yesterday, the party described the plot to remove Oshiomhole as a needless and avoidable crisis in the party. “We acknowledge and appreciate the dogged and passionate leadership of the national chairman, which was mainly responsible for our victories in the national elections. We did not only retain the presidency but also won the majority of the seats at the National Assembly. This gave birth to the progressive leadership at the two arms of the National Assembly. “We can definitely not dismiss his monumental achievements, which included breaking new grounds to the discomfort of opposition party,” it said, adding that the raging crisis in the party might not be unconnected with the quest of some people to position themselves for 2023 elections.
Meanwhile, the South-south APC stakeholders have said it is in the interest of the party to put the era of Oshiomhole behind it and move forward with new leadership. The stakeholders also said the statement by the APC Vice-Chairman, South-south, Prince Hilliard Eta, on Sunday where he claimed the leaders of the region were behind Oshiomhole, was not correct.
The spokesman of the APC South-south stakeholders, Mr. Ray Murphy, stated this yesterday while addressing a press conference in Abuja. The stakeholders also declared support for the proposed emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting scheduled for next week Tuesday.
Murphy, a chieftain of the party and former media adviser to Odigie-Oyegun, said that APC members from the region were disappointed at the way and manner Oshiomhole is running aground the APC.
He noted that since Oshiomhole took over from Odigie-Oyegun, it has been crisis after crisis generated by his inability to run a party with diplomacy and tact. NWC Not Factionalised, APC Insists Despite the crisis in the APC, the ruling party yesterday said its National Working Committee (NWC) has not been factionalised as being reported in a section of the media.
The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, assured all members of the party in a statement yesterday that party leaders are capable of resolving any contestations that may arise, bearing in mind the best interest of the party and in the pursuit of progress and development of the country. He also called on all members of the NWC and the party’s secretariat staff to resume at their offices and continue carrying out their scheduled roles and responsibilities without any fear. The party said: “In a political organisation such as the APC, contestations are not unusual and are not necessarily intractable. The issues being alluded to in the media reports are matters before the courts and should be allowed to run their normal and legal course. The exaggerated story foreboding Armageddon is far-fetched. ” The ruling party commended the Inspector General of Police (IG), Mr. Mohammed Adamu; personnel of the Police; Department of State Services (DSS) and other security services for their professionalism in maintaining the peace and preventing hoodlums from fomenting trouble at the APC national secretariat.