As the gospel of social distancing continues to reverberate around the world, we have compiled a list of films you can watch on TV or Netflix to keep you entertained while the global pandemic is being contained. Cable Girls: If you are into feminism and woman power, this Spanish TV series is a good place to start. The series follows the lives of five women who work in the Spanish first national telephone company in Madrid in the 1920s. Each one of them has their own baggage. Through the eyes of the narrator Lydia Aguilar (also Alba Romero), the series depicts how these women navigate friendship, love and social injustices against women. You can watch the four seasons of the show on Netflix. Can’t Help Falling in Love: The good thing about Netflix is that you can watch movies from unpopular climes. The Philippines film industry is one that has not enjoyed much global spotlight despite their burgeoning growth. ‘Can’t Help Falling in Love’ is a beautiful Filipino romantic comedy starring the country’s popular love team, Daniel Padilla and Kathryn Bernardo. Bernardo plays Gabriella who is about to get married to her successful boyfriend. It is good news for her mother. Unfortunately, Gab is already married to a total stranger. She hardly recalls the event. The arrival of the marriage certificate sets her on a mission to trace the mysterious ‘husband’ and annul their wedding before her fiancé gets wind of it. However, meeting the charming Dos (Padilla) proved more difficult than anticipated. This feel good movie is a must-watch. Other films to catch on Netflix include ‘Toy Boy’, ‘The Stranger’, ‘Alakada Reloaded’ and ‘Love is Blind’ Brethren: If you haven’t been catching up with the action drama ‘Brethren’ on Africa Magic Showcase, now it’s the best time. Produced by Femi Odugbemi, ‘Brethren’ is focused on the lives of two adopted brothers – Dobara aka Bara (Etim Effiong) and Dagogo aka Dags Kurukeme (Frankincense Eche-Ben) who are on different sides of the law. The action drama weaves through love and family as the battle to rid the city of crime gets fiercer. ‘Brethren’ is aired every week night on DStv. Ultimate Love: The new reality dating game by MultiChoice Nigeria is now available to other bouquets on GOtv and DStv platforms. Ultimate Love follows the lives of singletons living together in an isolated place with the aim to find true love. The singles are paired and each week, the couple with the least number of votes is evicted. So far, two couples have checked out of the show. You can catch all the drama on GOtv channel 29 and DStv channel 198. Deadly Secrets: Can you prove it before someone you love is killed? Well on ‘Deadly Secrets’, survivors of harrowing experiences tell us about the moment they began to suspect someone in their life might be planning to harm or kill their loved one(s) and how they tried to prevent it. Find out more on ‘Investigation Discovery’ showing on GOtv (ch. 52) every Friday afternoon. DC Super Hero Girls: The kiddies can be a part of the ’DC Super Hero Girls’ action on Cartoon Network on GOtv and DStv. Wonder Woman, Supergirl and their Super Hero friends all attend Super Hero High School and are trying to deal with the awkwardness of growing up. Catch this on weekdays at 4pm. Other shows to watch on DStv and GOtv include ‘Monster Family’ (M-Net Movies Zone), ‘Boomerang 2’ (BET), and ‘Monster’s Ship S1’ (Discovery Family).