By Nseobong Okon-Ekong The entire Ihiala Local Government Area have unanimously supported the CEO of Auldon Group, Mr. Paul Orajiaka, in his quest to become the next Governor of Anambra State in 2021. The declaration was made at the Bindell Hall St. Martins Church, Odoata Ihiala by the political class, led by Kenneth Emeakayi, women leaders and youth Leaders of Ihiala, who all indicated their preference for Orajiaka, following a motion initiated by Hon. Simeon Ohajianya and seconded by Hon. Theo Nnorom. Other personalities present at the meeting include; former member of the House of Representatives for Ihiala Federal Constituency, Hon. Vitalis Okafor; former members of the Anambra State House of Assembly; former Anambra State Commissioner; Hon. Mrs. Bridget Obi; former Chairmen of Ihiala Local Government Council, Chief S.I. Nwaeme; Hon. B.I. Abajuo; Chief Chinedu Ukachukwu; former Deputy Chairman of Ihiala Local Government Council, Barr G.O. Eleanya; former Chairman of ANPP in Anambra State, Ichie Mike Ejezie, among others. In his speech, Chief Emeakayi, said that “the political class in Ihiala without a doubt have carefully appraised the pedigree, philanthropic contributions to the state and background of the Harvard-trained business man who has done well to excel in all his chosen field with remarkable success to booth and collectively come to a clear conclusion that he is more than suitable for the exalted job.” Emeakayi said that the show of support became necessary for the progress and development of Ihiala community and Anambra. According to him, “It is a well-known fact that Ihiala is to produce the Governor irrespective of party affiliation, it is the community that will bring out the candidate that will run in the Governorship race. To this end, we need an individual with the perquisite capacity, capability and most importantly the competence to lift Anambra to new highs, and Paul Orajiaka we strongly believe can deliver on this task”. “The performance of the incumbent government in the community is commendable but more still needs to be done. Also speaking, Mr. Nnorom, said that the progress and community development of Anambra was the priority of all well-meaning indigene of Anambra State. “In Paul, we are confident that he is more than good for the position. Going by his background, he is from a reputable family and his father, popularly known across Anambra as M.O Orajis, Enwegbaraku 1 of Azia, a philanthropist and a very good man at that, impacted the lives of Ihiala community with his numerous good deeds. His son, who we have now all agreed to support is a man of vision, with great business acumen as shown with the success he has attained in building his business from scratch to a thriving empire. We believe he has all the qualities needed to steer Anambra to greatness, to this end we have all decided to pull our weight massively behind him. While appreciating the well-attended gathering, Orajiaka thanked the convener, Chief Emeakayi for convening the all-important meeting just as he appreciated the rich assembly of renowned Ihiala people assuring them that his decision to run is hinged on a resolution to serve and pursue swift and effective developmental growth as well as utilisation of gains. He also promised to avoid the common pitfalls of politicians who often made promises but deliver nothing at the end, pointing out that credibility is the key ingredient to democracy.