Segun Awofadeji in Gombe Gombe State Governor, Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya of said the All Progressives Congress (APC) was committed to addressing the yearnings and aspirations of the electorate in line with its next level agenda. He gave the assurance at the unveiling a youth and women empowerment programme initiated and sponsored by a lawmaker representing Akko Federal Constituency, Hon Usman Bello Kumo. Yahaya said the ruling party would fulfil all its electoral promises, saying his administration owed it a duty to keep to the campaign manifestos through programmes and projects that would improve the lives of the people they represent. He said elected officials from Gombe State had resolved to adopt a common stand in line with their campaign promises to better the lives of their respective constituents. He added that in the last 10 months, the APC government had put in place measures that would help address socio-economic challenges and infrastructural decay, vowing to continue to pursue people-oriented policies for the benefit of the citizenry. Yahaya commended Kumo for his empowerment initiative of distributing 120 each of motorcycles and sewing machines, power generation sets and cash donation to over 400 constituents as a start up capital for small scale businesses. He noted that the items and cash grant, if properly handled and utilised by the beneficiaries, would no doubt have positive multiplier effect on their immediate communities and go a long way in improving their economy and reducing unemployment among the youths. The governor urged other lawmakers to borrow a leaf from Kumo by initiating programmes that have direct bearing on the lives of their constituents.
Yahaya used the occasion to appreciate President Muhammadu Buhari, the National Assembly and the APC leadership for the laudable achievements recorded by the federal government in all facets of human endeavours. Also at the unveiling, the Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase, said what he witnessed in Kumo showed how satisfied the constituents in Akko Federal Constituency were with lawmaker’s representation at the green chamber.
He said APC “has come to stay in the state for no reason other than the style of leadership which people are yearning for Kumo will be remembered in history as someone who has touched the lives of his constituents in many positive ways.” In his remarks, Kumo, who is also the Chairman of the House Committee on Police Affairs, said he initiated the empowerment programme in order to support women and youths to be economically independent and self-reliant, reiterating his pledge to remain resolute to the yearnings of his people.
Kumo reiterated his loyalty and support to the Yahaya administration and the APC. Co- Chairmen at the event, Senator Sa’idu Umar Kumo and Alhaji Abubakar Muazu commended the lawmaker for always working in the interest of his people, calling on him to maintain the tempo. Both leaders declared their unalloyed support towards the lawmaker and his future aspirations.
Gombe State APC Chairman, Mr. Nitte Amangal, also expressed satisfaction with the representation of Kumo at the National Assembly, saying the lawmaker is working in tandem with the party’s ideologies. Highlight of the occasion was the presentation of empowerment items, including motorcycles, sewing machines, power