James Sowole in Akure Ondo State Governor, Mr Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, said he would accept the result of a free, fair and credible primary to elect the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for the October 2020 gubernatorial election in the state even if it does not favour him. Akeredolu stated this while featuring during a programme on Ondo Radio and Television Corporation (OSRC) tagged “An Evening with the Governor” organised as part of activities to commemorate third anniversary of his administration. The governor’s remarks were coming amidst leadership crisis rocking APC, which made people speculated that he may not win the party’s primary election. But, Akeredolu, who declared that he would run for second term, said there was no crisis in the party contrary to the noise being made by some people. He added that very few members of APC are complaining. He said: “I have accepted the call by various stakeholders to run for second term. I am ready to abide by the outcome of a free and primary process even if it does not favour me. “The process must be free and fair. If the process is not free, I believe we have learnt our lessons with the experiences in Zamfara State and elsewhere. “I am not a desperate politician. I am in politics to serve the people of the state and I have the confidence that our work will work for us during primary and the real election.” The governor said he had no enemy within the party, adding that he does not know how to hide his feelings on issues. He noted that he was ready to dialogue with any person or group of persons that have issues with him. While promising to work more for the people of the state when elected for the second term, Akeredolu promised that preparation for election would not affect the pace of ongoing developmental projects in the state. He said it was a fact that some of the projects could not be completed within the first year, assuring that continuity would even make the work faster. He, therefore, called on the people of the state to remain steadfast so that the good works could continue.