• Insists on taking land back from Methodist Mission
Tobi Soniyi in Lagos, Efure, a community in Offin Sagamu, Ogun State has told an Ogun State High Court sitting in Sagamu that a survey plan exhibited in a suit it filed against Wesleyan Methodist Missionary Association Limited is fake. Also, the community has asked the court to set aside a 90-year-old lease of 54 acres of land between the community and Methodist mission on the ground that the mission misled it into signing the lease agreement. In the suit filed by its counsel, Mr. Babatunde Oshilaja, the community equally asked the court to nullify the Deed of Lease dated March 15, 1931 on 53.94 acres of land kept at Ogun state land registry, Abeokuta.
Oshilaja filled the suit on behalf of Samuel Banjo, Emmanuel Adelesi, Kolawole Odugbesi for themselves as members and representatives of Efure, a community in Offin Sagamu Other defendants in the suit are; the Registrar of Titles, Ogun State; the Incorporated Trustees of the Methodist Church; Nigeria Sagamu Local Government; Vigilante Security Organisation; Oladega Ajelana, Wasiu Asanko and Abosede Dauda (members of Kajola Saw Millers); Wasiu Jebe, Alhaja Ganiyat Adebayo, Tunbosun Okubote, Yaya Okesola, Bolanle Adeboga and the Gospel Sabbatarian the True Church of God.
In a twist, three of the defendants namely, Oladega Ajelana, Wasiu Asanko and Mrs. Abosede Dauda (members of Kajola Saw Millers) filed a survey plan, which they claimed was attached to the Deed of Lease dated March 15, 1931. To support the case of the defendants, the Baba Ij General of the Rev. Mellor Methodist Cathedral, Agbowa Sagamu, Chief Oye Awofala had supported his deposition with the survey in question.
Suffice to point out that the plaintiffs had exhibited a survey that was attached to and registered with the lease in 1931.
But in a swift reaction, counsel to the plaintiffs, Oshilaja said the new survey was never part of the original lease and was not attached to the lease when the parties purportedly signed the lease agreement in March 15,1931. According to him, the original survey is with the Ogun State Land Registry, which has been exhibited by the plaintiffs.
He also pointed out that the new survey was made in 1975 and wondered how a survey made in 1975 could support a lease agreement made in 1931. “The two documents speak for themselves”, he added.
Awofala had also averred that the land in question belonged to the Akarigbo of Remo who gave it to the defendants via the lease agreement of 15th day of March 1931. He also disputed the plaintiffs’ claim that they were successors in title.
In paragraph 16, he admitted that the original agreement was signed by Akarigbo Oba Williams Adedoyin and his chiefs on one part and ‘the Wesleyan Methodist Missionary Trust Association Limited’ on the other part. However, there is no evidence that the company was incorporated either in Nigeria or England. In their statement of claim, the plaintiffs are asking the court to declare Wesley Methodist Missionary Trust Association Limited as a none juristic personality that did not exist in law because it was not registered under the relevant laws in place as at the time it purportedly signed the lease agreement with them.
They also asked the court to determine whether Methodist Missionary Trust Association Limited has legal status as an incorporated limited company in Nigeria. The claimants in their 36-page Motion on Notice stated that only legal persons were capable of possessing legal rights and duties and since Wesleyan Methodist Missionary Trust Association Limited was not a legal person registered under the Nigerian law as at March 15, 1931 or thereafter it could not acquire an interest in the leasehold land.
The community added that that Methodist Missionary Trust Association Limited has no legal status as it was not an incorporated limited company, hence there was no execution of the Deed of Lease on the disputed land. The claimants stated that as at March 15, 1931 the Wesley Missionary Trust Association Limited was not known to law and was therefore not legally capable of exercising the powers and functions of an incorporated company including the power to hold the leasehold land.
They maintained that Wesley Missionary Trust Association Limited failed to comply with general conditions laid down in the Companies’ Ordinance of 1912, or the Companies Act of 1948 and failed to obtain registration and incorporation as a limited liability company. Besides, the claimants noted that by the provision of Section 54(1) of the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) every foreign company which before or after the commencement of CAMA was incorporated outside Nigeria and having the intention of carrying on business in Nigeria shall take all steps necessary to obtain incorporation as a separate entity in Nigeria.
They averred that Wesley Missionary Trust Association Limited not being a registered limited liability company as expressed in it name as at March 15, 1931 lacked requisite legal capacity required to enter into leasehold contract. The claimants added that the domicile origin of Wesley Missionary Trust Association is United Kingdom where it was liable to tax laws but illegally carrying out business in Nigeria without obtaining registration/incorporation under Nigerian Company statutory legislation.
They argued that all the original rights of the lessors in the Deed of Lease were preserved to their successors and their predecessors who lived in 1931 are in law one and the same. Consequently, the claimants are asking the court for an order vesting the entire 53.94 acres of land in them as successors to the lessors as deemed holders of the statutory right of occupancy under section 34(2) of the Land Use Act.
In its amended memorandum of appearance brought under order 9, rule 1(1), however, Wesley Missionary Trust Association Limited and the Incorporated Trustees of the Methodist Church stated that the claimants were not known to the defendants and that there was no relationship between them since 1931 when the land was acquired. They said that the land in dispute was given to them for free by the Akarigbo of Remonand his chiefs and not the plaintiffs.
They argued that the claimants’ action had been defeated by statute of limitation, lacking reasonable cause of action and should be dismissed.
They further stated that the claimants’ case had been defeated by laches and acquiescence (unreasonable and inexcusably delay) and liable to be dismissed. The case has been adjourned to April 2 for hearing.