By Adedayo Akinwale Members of National Executive Committee (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from the South-south zone of the country have for the umpteenth time dissociated themselves from the NEC meeting of the party scheduled for Tuesday. This was contained in the resolutions of a well-attended meeting of the zone held on Sunday March 15, 2020 in Abuja. The meeting, according to a statement made available to journalists on Monday, had in attendance the Deputy Senate President and leader of South-south zone, Senator Ovie Omo-agege; APC National Vice-Chairman, South, Hilliard Eta; Deputy National Legal Adviser, E. I. Adoh-ogbuta; and Zonal Women Leader, Mrs Rachael Akpabio. Others are: Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Hon. Yekini Nabena; Zonal Youth Leader, Mr. Gabriel Idueseri; Zonal Ex-officio, Chief Kokote Ibadan; state Chairman, Akwa Ibom, Hon. Ini Okopido; Hon. Isreal Goli and Hon. Peter Akpatason. The South-south NEC members passed a vote of confidence on the embattled National Chairman, Mr Adams Oshiomhole. It said: “That we cannot allow ourselves to be used as agents of destabilisation of our party we have laboured so hard to build. “That in line with the resolutions reached by the National Working Committee (NWC) of our party, we dissociate ourselves from the purported NEC meeting being summoned by Hon. Victor Giadom as he does not have the constitutional powers to summon NEC meeting. “That the said Hon. Victor Giadom is not a member of NWC having resigned his position as Deputy National Secretary of the party to contest elections in Rivers State as deputy governorship candidate in the 2019 general election.” The South-south leaders implored all members of NEC to respect the decisions of the NWC of the party that the purported NEC meeting summoned by Giadom was illegal and unconstitutional. They noted that under the leadership of Oshiomhole, the party won the presidential election, won majority of the seats in the National Assembly, and also won governorship elections in most states of the federation.