Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has paid a condolence visit to the family of his late escort rider, Inspector Ali Gomina, who died in an accident Friday along Airport Road Abuja. “Late Inspector Ali Gomina was an officer that was loved by many, he served very dutifully and diligently. We are all very sad when this happened. It is terrible,” Osinbajo said during the visit to the deceased family and the entire Gui community in the Abuja Municipal Area Council on Saturday. A statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media & Publicity, Office of the Vice President, Laolu Akande, said Prof. Osinbajo arrived the community at about 3.45 pm accompanied by aides and was received by the Chief of the village, Alhaji Alhassan Yussuf, and other leaders of the community. The statement said prayers were led by the Imam of Gui community mosque, Abubakar Jibril, and the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) pastor in the community, Pastor Adegbe Julius. It added that the Vice President later spent time interacting with the family, especially the widow of the deceased, Asiya Ali Gomina, and the first son, Ali Kabiru Gomina, expressing his condolence and encouraging them. “We all loved him. He served very dutifully and diligently. We are all very sad when this happened. It is terrible. We were all there and saw it happen and we are very pained by it. This is the reason we have all come, to commiserate with the family and the community,” Osinbajo said while addressing the chief of the village and others shortly after interacting with the family. He assured the family and the community of government’s support to both the immediate family of the late officer and the community in general. “I am here today myself to see his children, and see what we can do to help the family, and in his honour, what we can do to help his community,” he said. Osinbajo prayed “God will help and sustain his family, we pray that all will be well with his family and community. “We will also see what we can do to assist the community in whatever way. God bless you, well done.” Late Inspector Ali Gomina, aged 45, one of the police escort riders in the Office of the Vice President, was killed in a road accident while on official duty on Friday. He died after a car rammed into him and flung him on the path of a moving tanker way ahead of the convoy on the expressway to the airport in Abuja.