Alex Enumah in Abuja A group in the United States of America has instituted a legal action against China over the devastating effects of the COVID-19 on the lives, economy and people of the United States. In the suit filed at the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, the plaintiffs are demanding the sum of $20trillion as compensation for damages suffered as a result of the pandemic in the United States. According to the plaintiffs in the suit with number: 3:20-CV-00656-K, the number of deaths recorded as a as at March 15, 2020 was 41, which is expected to rise, with other devastating effects on the health and economy of the US citizens. Plaintiffs in the suit filed on March 17 are: Buzz Photo, Freedom Watch, Inc., Larry Klayman and members of the class and subclasses and all persons and entities similarly situated. Other defendants include; The People’s Liberation Army (China’s military), Wuhan Institute of Virology, Shi Zhengli, Director, Wuhan Institute of Virology and Major General Chen Wei, China’s People’s Liberation Army. In the class action brought pursuant to the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act (JASTA) exception 18 USC § 2333, the plaintiffs want the court to hold the defendants guilty of breach of international laws on weapons of mass destruction. “This is a complaint for damages and equitable relief arising out of the creation and release, accidental or otherwise, of a variation of coronavirus known as COVID-19 by the People’s Republic of China and its agencies and officials as a biological weapon in violation of China’s agreements under international treaties, and recklessly or otherwise allowing its release from the Wuhan Institute of Virology into the city of Wuhan, China, in Hubei Province, by among other acts failing to prevent the Institute’s personnel from becoming infected with the bioweapon and carrying it into the surrounding community and proliferation into the United States”, lawyer to the plaintiffs, Larry Klayman, said. The plaintiffs claimed that although it appears that the COVID-19 was released at an unplanned and unexpected time, it was prepared and stockpiled as a biological weapon to be used against China’s perceived enemies, including but not limited to the people of the United States. “While COVID-19 may be too slow acting and slow-spreading to be used quickly against an enemy’s military, it was designed to be used against the general population of one or more of China’s perceived enemy nations, such as the United States. “Thus, the defendants, each and every one of them acting in concert jointly and severally as joint tortfeasors, created and/or refined and then stockpiled biological weapons for the express purpose of using such weapons against its perceived enemies, including but not limited to the people of the United States. “The defendants, each and every one of them acting in concert jointly and severally as joint tortfeasors, acted and/or conspired to harm US citizens using these biological weapons”, the plaintiffs said. They further claimed that because China agreed by treaty to outlaw such weapons, these actions cannot be official governmental actions of the People’s Republic of China and are not subject to any possible claim of legal immunity from suit. In addition they said although the actual release of the COVID-19 bioweapon appeared to have been unintentional and not intended to be released in the laboratory’s backyard, the purpose of maintaining the virus within the laboratory was to use it to kill US citizens and other persons and entities in nations perceived to be an enemy of China. Delta Acquires Ventilators, Bans Public Gatherings