By Francis Sardauna The Katsina State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said there is no crisis rocking the party in the state ahead of its forthcoming congresses billed for March and April 2020. The chairman of the party, Hon. Salisu Yusuf Majigiri, who disclosed this to THISDAY while reacting to reports in some national dailies that the party is bedevilled with internal skirmishes, described the allegation as baseless and false. He said: “The Congresses will hold in 26 states of Nigeria. Katsina State will not be an exception and we don’t have any problem that cannot allow the congress to hold because all the guidelines have been adhered to strictly. “We don’t have any complaint so far within PDP, but this is politics people outside the PDP can think otherwise. Congresses are the internal business of the party so people outside the party should not intervene in PDP affairs.” He therefore urged members and leaders of the party to disregard the “misleading report”, saying it was sponsored by rumour peddlers whose interest is to tarnish the party’s rising popularity in the state. The PDP chairman called on the party chieftains who may be aggrieved over one issue or the other to embrace the internal mechanisms and due process before taking their grievances to the media. He however said there was no plan to impose any candidate on the party ahead of its Congress, adding that its rising popularity had been a source of worry to the ruling party (APC) in the state. “Once you are a PDP member by constitution, you are free to contest any position. There is no difference between old and new PDP members. So, we don’t discriminate and we don’t have any special treatment for anybody who want to contest for any position in the forthcoming congresses,” he said. Majigiri explained that he had performed tremendously well as the chairman of the party, adding that: “We have done very well and it is due to our performances that a group purchased forms for our reelection in the forthcoming congress.”