Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Government has arraigned three teachers, who were dismissed last week for alleged rape and child abuse, before an Ado-Ekiti Chief Magistrates’ Court. The teachers – Gbenga Ajibola, Adeyanju Olaitan and Olaofe Ayodele – were separately arraigned on Friday for allegedly raping three female students in contravention of the Ekiti State Gender Based Violence Law 2019 In the case of Ajibola, a Grade Level 12 teacher of Computer Education, the prosecutor, Mr. Johnson Okunade told the court that the defendant committed the offence sometimes in the month of December 2019 in Ado-Ekiti. Okunade told the court that the defendant, a teacher at All Soul Grammar School in Ado Ekiti raped his student, a 17-year-old, which contravened section 2(2) of the Ekiti State Gender Based Violence Law 2019. The prosecutor, therefore, asked the court for an adjournment to enable him refer the case file to office of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) for legal advice. Also, Adeyanju, a Grade Level 13 teacher of Accounts at Osi Community High School, was arraigned before the court for contravening the Ekiti State Gender Based Violence Law 2019 and Child Rights Law. The prosecutor, Mr. Oriyomi Akinwale, told the court that the defendant committed the offence sometimes in December 2019 in Osi-Ekiti.
He alleged that the defendant, who was a teacher at Osi community high school in Osi-Ekiti, engaged a senior secondary school III student to marry him, to the detriment of her academic and psychological well being. Akinwale said the offence contravened section 6(1) of the Ekiti State Gender Based Violence (prohibition) Law 2019. While presenting the case of the 50-year-old Olaofe, Okunade told the court that the defendant committed the offence sometimes in December 2019 in Ado-Ekiti. He alleged that the defendant, a Grade Level 14 teacher of Chemistry at All Soul Grammar School in Ado-Ekiti, raped his student of 15-year-old, an offence that contravened section 2(2) of the Ekiti State Gender Based Violence Law 2019. In the three cases, the prosecutors asked the court for adjournment to enable him forward the case files to the office of Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) for legal advice. Subsequently, the Chief Magistrate, Mr. Adesoji Adegboye, ordered that the defendants be kept in police custody pending issuance of legal advice by Department of Public Prosecution.