The immediate past Governor of Bayelsa State, the Hon. Henry Seriake Dickson, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for appointing Prof Kemebradikumo Pondei as the Acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission. The former Governor who also commended the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Sen. Godswill Akpabio, congratulated the new NDDC Acting Managing Director for the appointment. The former governor urged Prof Pondei, who he described as a hardworking professional, to use his wealth of experience to clean up the NDDC for optimum performance, in a statement by his Media Aide, Mr Fidelis Soriwei, on Sunday He urged Prof Pondei to focus attention on the failed policies, projects and wastages responsible for the failure of the commission to address the challenges of development in the region. He enjoined Prof Pondei to collaborate effectively with the Bayelsa State Governor and those of other states in the region to actualize the objectives that inspired the establishment of the commission. “I congratulate Prof. Kemebradikumo Pondei for his recent and well deserved appointment as Ag. Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission. I also commend President Muhammadu Buhari and Chief Godswill Akpabio for the appointment. “I call on Prof. Pondei whom I have always known as a competent and hardworking man to use his wealth of experience to sanitize the NDDC. As a Bayelsan, Prof. Pondei is aware of the failed policies, projects and wastages which accounts for the under performance of the NDDC. “I therefore urge him to work loyally with the minister, the governor and government of Bayelsa State as well as the governors of other Niger Delta States, using the appointment to reposition the NDDC in achieving her desired objectives for the benefit of Bayelsa State, and the entire region.” He said that he had to commend the President for appointing a Bayelsa son into a strategic agency in consonance with the principle and practice for which he is reputed.