Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja All Progressives Congress (APC) wednesday said it was not aware of the ruling by the Federal High Court, sitting in Ado Ekiti, which cautioned its National Chairman, Mr. Adams Oshiomhole, against appointing Senator Abiola Ajimobi as the Deputy National Chairman (South) of the party. The court, presided over by Justice UN Agoumoh, had on Tuesday said it would be contemptuous for anyone to be appointed into the position by the APC’s National Working Committee (NWC) until the determination of a case filed by an aspirant, Mr. Michael Akinleye, contesting Ajimobi’s proposed nomination. But the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, while responding to THISDAY inquiry, said while APC was not officially aware of the court ruling, the party would follow the path of peaceful resolution of any issues that may arise.
He stated: “I’m not fully abreast of this matter as we have officially closed our offices, including the party secretariat because of COVID-19. “While I cannot preempt the party’s approach to this matter, I can assure you that our party would always ultimately follow the path of peaceful resolution of any issues that may arise.” The seat became vacant following the appointment of Mr. Niyi Adebayo as a minister representing Ekiti State.
The state chapter of the APC had nominated Senator Gbenga Aluko to fill the vacancy in respect of the party’s micro-zoning, and opposed the zoning of the position to Oyo State. At the Tuesday’s proceeding, the counsel to the claimant, Mr. Taiwo Omidoyin, drew the attention of the court to the fact that APC NWC had gone ahead to appoint and inaugurate Ajimobi into the office, despite the pendency of the case. But counsel to the respondent, Chief Anthony Adeniyi, said Ajimobi had neither been nominated nor installed in the office.
Justice Agoumoh, therefore, ruled that status quo ante bellum be maintained. “I want to warn the lawyers to tell their clients not to do anything that will jeopardise the case in court. I hope your clients have not taken any steps with regard to the case at hand. The consequences will be dire for anyone who flouts the order,” he ruled.
The judge adjourned the case till April 7 for further hearing.