Udora Orizu in Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) have charged President Muhammadu Buhari to douse widespread public anxieties by immediately addressing the nation on the status of the Presidential Villa, in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic. The party’s demand is predicated on public apprehensions of health safety issues in the Villa following reports that President Buhari’s Chief of Staff, Mallam Abba Kyari, had tested positive to the disease. The PDP in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, noted that though President Buhari was reported to have tested negative to the virus, it is imperative that he douses public tension by addressing the nation on the status of the Villa, especially given that other officials, like Abba Kyari, had travelled to high-risk countries in the course of their duties. The party noted that an address on the situation in the Presidential Villa will further douse public concerns about the status of certain key officials, who have not been visible in the last few days. The party stressed that Nigerians, no matter how highly placed, should strictly adhere to directives by relevant agencies of government on health safety measures, particularly as they relate to isolation of persons returning from foreign trips. On its part, the CUPP said that President Buhari must see his clean bill of health as a divine chance to do more to protect Nigerians. The political parties in a statement issued by its spokesperson, Mr. Ikenga Ugochinyere called for a wholesale testing of all governors, ministers and persons who have had cause to enter the presidential villa since Kyari returned from his foreign trip. CUPP said, “We call that the best possible hands and all available resources be deployed to ensure the safety of Mallam Abba Kyari. He is obviously a resource to the Presidency and a trusted confidant of the President and his wellbeing will keep the President in a good frame of mind to diligently lead our country in these very trying times.” “The vice president, all ministers, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Head of Service, all APC governors who attended the APC leadership peace meeting, the Bayelsa State governor who also visited the President, the Speaker of the House of Representatives who also met with the President on March 16, all who attended the commissioning of the emergency number 112 by the President on 19th March and indeed all who have visited the Villa or met with the Chief of Staff to the President since that time.”