The organisers of Lagos Fintech Week has postponed the 2020 edition of the week long activity of fintech events due to the outbreak of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) that has been declared as a global pandemic by the World Health Organization (WHO). The date for the event is September 2020. Lagos Fintech Week is a Fintech festival. It is a week-long, content-rich event to unite Lagos’ Fintech ecosystem with national and international participants. The multi-format conference covers technology topics such as artificial intelligence, authentication, advanced sensors, digital and mobile payments as well as application programming interfaces (APIs), blockchain, big data and learning machines. The chairman of the organising committee of the Lagos Fintech Week, Dr Yele Okeremi, said the decision came after much deliberation and consultation with industry stakeholders who have strongly endorsed the prioritisation of the collective interests of all participants. He added: “We have a role to play in order to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria and on our part as the organiser of the biggest Fintech event in Lagos State; we are postponing this year’s edition from April 14-17 to September 22-25, 2020”. He said Lagos Fintech Week is an invigorating week of distinct Fintech events that delivers exciting discussions, stimulating demos and insightful debates. It also features case studies and panels in consumer banking, corporate banking, financial markets and insurance etc. The theme for the 2020 edition is Agenda for Cashless Lagos. “We urge Nigerians from all walks of life to comply with the Lagos State government and the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) by maintaining proper hygiene and avoiding any gathering that is more than 50 people,” Okeremi said. While appreciating all the sponsors, speakers, panellists and volunteers that would participate at the 2020 Lagos Fintech Week, Okeremi promised that in September the organiser would put up a top-notch event that would further move the industry forward.