Apart from nomination tension, love guests also have to worry about the ex-party. None can tell whose ex will be paying them a surprise visit on Friday night. Arnold’s ex visit last week put his relationship with Bolanle in an awkward place. His ex, an outspoken young lady minced no words when she told him to choose between him and Bolanle. Convincing Bolanle that she is the only love of his life proved hectic. However, after Bolanle received a lovely message from a relative and saved by Aunty from possible check out this weekend, Bolar seemed to have their ship sailing smoothly again such that they shared their future plans with Aunty during their session. Arnold is thinking of moving out of his mini apartment to a larger one. He is hoping that Bolanle would consider moving in with him. As the ex party holds tonight, we are waiting with bated breath to see whose ex will be crashing the party. Perhaps, an ex of Obichukwu. The young man was treated to a romantic dinner by his beau, Ebi, this week. With the help of fellow love guests, Ebi used the dinner to express her undying love for Obichukwu. “I’m unapologetically in love with you,” she tells Obichukwu, confessing that she has given up on love and never regarded a man’s role in her life until Obichukwu came along. She even composed a love song for him and went down on her knees to apologise for her attitude towards him lately but Obichukwu, being the caring man, rejected such gesture. He told her sternly that the only time she should only kneel for God. Perhaps, Theresa should get an ex visit. She didn’t take it likely the last time her partner got an ex visit. The young lady spent most of her time this week worrying over the negative vibes from love guests they nominated. Despite Iyke’s attempt to calm her nerves, she is uncomfortable with the way some people treat her. What better way to calm her nerves than to have an ex attend the party tonight? It will be nice to see how Jay will react if Nkechi gets an ex visit. The couple have had a smooth sail until recently when the issue of religion and celibacy sprang up. Jay doesn’t believe in going to church every Sunday. His philosophy is being good and kind. Nkechi finds his attitude towards church disturbing. Being a Catholic, she believes the family should always attend church together. Jay’s decision to allow her to go to church with their future children is not an option to her. She is also not comfortable with Jay’s curiosity on how many sex partners she had in the past. These issues are giving the pretty damsel headache. Who knows, an ex visit will probably make Jay realise the precious gem in front of him. What about Chris Adanna? Will her veneer of calmness crack if Chris Ville gets attention from someone else? Particularly now that she is getting comfy with him. She nearly lost her cool after hearing Ebi proclaim that they (Double Chris) will be checked out this weekend. Confiding in her partner, she revealed that if Ebi dared cross her path, she would strike her back without a blink. Let’s see if she can maintain her cool when her beau gets an ex visit. Tonight’s party will reveal whose ship will be rocked. Meanwhile, Iykeresa, Double Chris, ObiEbi and JayKech are up for possible check-out this Sunday.