Mary Nnah Over 100 indigent patients of Awoyokun, Onipanu, Lagos State, benefited from free eye service and got free eye glasses during a medical outreach organised recently by a nongovernmental organisation called, Stop Hurting People Foundation. The one day programme, which incidentally extended to the second day, due to the large turnout of people, witnessed screening and treatment of eye related issues; provision of free eyeglasses and tutorials on prevention and management of diabetes, among others. A patron of the Foundation and General Overseer, Winning Power International Ministries Apostle Kenneth Chukwuemeka, who explained that Stop Hurting People Foundation is a charity arm of the ministry, said the exercise was basically to deal with eye issues. “We have Optometrists and ophthalmologists on ground to attend to people with eye issues and we have one hundred brand new glasses to give out for free to those who need eye glasses”, he said. Speaking further, Apostle Chukwuemeka who happens to be husband to Mrs. Eunice Iferi-Chukwuemeka, the woman behind the initiative, explained why the foundation decided to embark on eye screening and provision of eye glasses. “We thought about the fact that a lot of people have eye issues but can’t visit the hospital because in most cases, they don’t have money for neither the test nor the glasses, so they wait for too long and only go to hospital when it is already too late. So, this particular outreach is basically to help people who can’t afford it”, he said. He explained that the cost for each patient was what an average Optometrist will charge when one goes for an eye test and to get an eye glass if you need one, adding, “we just paid for that from our own pocket. “In terms of the cost, I told my wife who is the president of the foundation, to find a way for others to be part of it in terms of the expenditure because the bill is always on me. And because she has a heart for the less privileged, she would just come to me and plead. And when you can see the pains she feels and the empathy she has for these set of people, you can’t but help”. Speaking on the driving force behind the charity work, the brain behind the initiative, Mrs. Iferi-Chukwuemeka, said, “I have been through seasons in my life which makes me understand that sometimes, people react to things as a result of what they pass through. “A very pleasant person can turn sore because of a situation she has passed through. So, the passion for people in pain is what basically drives me daily. It is also to make sure that whatever I suffered nobody suffers such“.