By Kasim Sumaina The federal government has been advised to subsidise the renewable energy industry rather than spending huge amount on petroleum products importation. Stakeholders in the renewable energy industry made the plea recently in Abuja, at the national policy conference/policy roundtable dialogue on the National Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Policy, where they observed that Nigeria would benefit more when the country’s renewable energy sector is improved upon. In a communique issued at the end of the event, organised by the Partnership for Economic Policy, participants agreed that production subsidy should apply to the production of renewable energy rather than its importation. Speaking on the possibility of channeling subsidy on petrol to the renewable energy sector, they noted that this highlighted the problem of the dearth of domestic capacity to produce, maintain and develop the renewable energy sector in the country. The stakeholders opined that to improve domestic capacity, adapting renewable energy into the existing educational curriculum was necessary. The participants in the communique, equally raised concerns regarding the overwhelming emphasis on solar energy which had warranted the neglect and underdevelopment of other options like wind and tidal waves. They noted that a major consideration for expanding the scope of renewable energy use in Nigeria was the option of awareness and sensitisation programmes that focused on the advantages of renewable energy in very remote communities. Such awareness programmes they said, should highlight the cost implications of adopting renewable energy and sustainability options that can generate income for the users.
According to them, “The economic implications should be considered when formulating policies on renewable energy. “The problems of weak inter-agency collaborations, affordability considerations of existing renewable energy options and the need to harmonise the implementation of import regulations pertaining to renewable energy as probable economic conditions that could mitigate the effectiveness of renewable energy policies.” They, however, highlighted other mitigating factors to effective renewable energy policies, which included knowledge gap between researchers’ findings and implementing these findings by policymakers “And the dissimilar demand for renewable energy for both on-grid and off-grid electricity consumers,” said.