Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has taken more stringent measures by directing all markets in the state that do not sell essential commodities such as foodstuff, medicine, medical equipment and water to be closed down effective from 5.00 pm Thursday, March 26, 2020. This is in a bid to curtail the spread of the dreaded coronavirus (Covid-19) in the state and by ensuring that citizens observe the social distancing practice, among other measures. The governor’s directive was contained in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Yinka Oyebode, in Ado-Ekiti, on Wednesday. The statement directs all medicine stores that are open to the public to make sure they do not sell or display any other items whatsoever, while those selling food stuffs should not display or sell anything outside food stuffs. Similarly, the governor has appealed to commercial drivers and the leadership of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) in the state to reduce the outrageous fares being charged commuters mainly students who have been returning home in their numbers following the closure of schools in the state. “Pharmacy stores are also urged not to hike the prices of essential drugs,” the statement said. Meanwhile, members of the public are reminded of the ban on gatherings that are above 20 persons either for social, communal or religious purposes as a monitoring and enforcement taskforce has been dispatched across the state. The governor urged all citizens in the state to join hands with the government and its agencies in the collective war against the coronavirus pandemic. Similarly, the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has closed down its state secretariat for 14 days to help in stemming the tide of coronavirus in the state. A statement by the party’s Publicity Secretary, Hon Ade Ajayi, on Wednesday, said the closure became inevitable to help Governor Fayemi find a lasting solution to the spread of the scourge. The party appealed to Ekiti residents to comply with the directive by Fayemi not to hold any gathering of more than 20 persons in every home, church, mosque and other public institutions. “The temporary closure will last for two weeks as agreed by the Central Working Committee members of the APC state Exco. “During this period, we also place a ban on party rallies, ward meetings and other political gatherings until further notice. “We urge our party members to maintain social distancing and personal hygiene during this critical period,” APC advised. The party commended Governor Fayemi for taking proactive measures to contain Covid-19, saying this has helped in taming the spread of the pandemic. “The prompt closure of all private and public institutions was right. We stand by Governor Fayemi and all the decisions he had taken since Ekiti recorded the first victim. “The governor being a humanist that is passionate about the wellbeing and development of humanity resolved to shut all institutions and also directed that all civil servants must work from home with assurances that their salaries will be paid despite this development,” APC said.