OMD Worldwide, an Omnicom Media Group Agency, has been named Global Media Agency of the Year 2020for the second consecutive year by Adweek, a leading advertising industry publication globally. The accolade marks the sixth time that OMD has been named Adweek Global Media Agency of the year since 2010. Profiling the agency in its February 24th issue, Adweek credits OMD for sustaining the stunning 2018 comeback globally that earned it the Global Media Agency of the Year title last year; and for leveraging that momentum to support the continuing investments in talent, technology and process that would make winning a repeatable process in 2019, and into the new decade. In the COMvergence Media Agency New Business Barometer report released on February 25, 2020, OMD globally tops the ranking with $2,027M in net new business values (As defined by the standard industry calculation i.e. wins + retentions – losses). The COMvergence New Business Barometer completes a trifecta of first place net new business rankings for OMD in 2019, following reports from global consultancy R3 and media agency research company RECMA published earlier this year. Commenting on the collective affirmation of OMD’s industry leading performance in 2019, OMD Worldwide CEO Florian Adamski said “OMD is starting the new decade with greater-than-ever capacity and commitment to delivering better decisions, better ideas and better outcomes – faster – for our clients all around the world.” On the ‘constant’rigour for Talent, Technology and Process, mediaReach OMD Nigeria Managing Director Nitinchandra Nandekar said, “OMD Design is our unique differentiator that fully came to life late last year; our staff has been fully trained to deliver better decisions, faster to our clients using OMD Design. OMD Design is a process which is dynamic and fully integrated to the capabilities that sit within Omni, the data platform. OMD Design guides users through every stage of the insight and planning process, democratizing access to Omni’s potential across the network.” OMD Worldwide is the world’s largest media network with more than 13,000 people working in over 100 countries. As the world grows with opportunities, the key is reacting to them, by making Better decisions, faster – combining innovation, creativity, empathy and evidence to deliver better business outcomes. Named Adweek’s Global Media Agency of the Year 2019 & 2020, OMD, an Omnicom Media Group agency, is currently ranked the world’s most effective media agency network in the Effie Effectiveness Index. Omnicom Media Group is the media services division of Omnicom Group, Inc. (NYSE: OMC), the leading global advertising, marketing and corporate communications company, providing services to over 5,000 clients in more than 100 countries. OMD: mediaReach OMD in Nigeria, West & Central Africa continues to be a thought leader and pioneer of various initiatives at the industry level, including syndicated & proprietary researches. mediaReach OMD continues to add ‘value’ to respective Client’s Businesses by delivering Better Decisions, Faster. This year marks the 21st year of mediaReach OMD’s journey in Nigeria and continues to be the leading Media Agency in West & Central Africa and has been consistently ranked No. 1 by RECMA (since report started for Nigeria in 2011), having presence in Nigeria, Ghana and Cameroon, with partner offices in West& Central Africa giving an unrivalled coverage to existing Clients in the Region.