HMD Global, the home of Nokia phones has released a new campaign for its soon to be released Nokia smartphones. The firm also signed a partnership deal with a new movie, ‘No Time To Die ‘, a film produced by the iconic James Bond, as the official phone partner of the flick. By this arrangement, the new commercial will enjoy massive airplay in the new flick which is expected to run across cinema, digital, social, Out of Home and retail media. The commercial is part of HMD’s Global largest marketing campaign to showcase Nokia smartphones as ‘The Only Gadget You’ll Ever Need’. The device will be fully unveiled on 19th March, 2020 ,in plenty of time for ‘No Time To Die,’ which is coming to UK cinemas on 12th November, 2020. Other future-proof Nokia phones that will appear in the flick included Nokia 7.2, featuring a 48MP triple camera with Quad Pixel technology and ZEISS Optics .The iconic Nokia 3310 will also feature in the film. The film partnership allows HMD Global to demonstrate its status as a global provider of Android smartphones, showcasing its commitment to security, speed and innovation,while also meeting the demands of world’s toughest customers – MI6 agents. The video commercial is filmed against the backdrop of the distinctive London skyline featuring St Paul’s, The Shard and Lashana Lynch. Shedding more light on the partnership, Chief Product Officer of HMD Global, Juho Sarvikas, said: “Following the announcement to postpone the movie launch to 12th November, we now have a really exciting year ahead of us in the build up to this much anticipated release. “Few cultural properties place technology at the heart of their appeal quite like ‘No Time To Die’. The film’s commitment to innovation, paired with the amazing technology built into each Nokia smartphone, making our devices the only gadget that anyone – even a 00 agent will ever need, makes this partnership a real force to be reckoned with. “Trust, security and iconic quality design are the foundations every Nokia phone is built upon and our values reflect those of ‘No Time to Die’ and the trailblazing new 00 agent, Lynch. We take great pride in making the latest technology accessible to everyone and look forward to doing this via our latest partnership.”