• Bagudu, Ekweremadu, others linked to 800 Dubai properties worth N164bn
Gboyega Akinsanmi The Chairman, Progressives Governors Forum, Alhaji Atiku Bagudu, a lawmaker representing Enugu West Senatorial District, Senator Ike Ekweremadu and former Managing Director of the acquired Oceanic Bank, Mrs. Cecilia Ibru are among 334 prominent Nigerians who owned properties in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, a new report has revealed. The report, published by an American-based non-governmental organisation, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, identified 800 properties in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
The report, which is titled; “Dubai Properties: An Oasis for Nigeria’s Corrupt Political Elites”, is based largely on private data compiled by UAE-based real estate and property professionals. It put the value of the properties at N164 billion. The report stated that the prominent public figures otherwise described as politically-exposed persons (PEP), who were found to own these properties, cut across Nigeria’s major ethnic, religious and political divides.
The report further stated that about 20 former and serving governors, seven former and serving senators, current and former heads of ministries, departments and agencies of government, commissioners and those described as ‘money changers,’ that is, bureau de change operators, own a significant number of the properties. Some of the other identified individuals linked to the properties include the former PDP chairman, Ahmadu Ali; former Kwara State governor, Mohammed Lawal; former petroleum minister, Dan Etete; another former deputy senate president, Ibrahim Mantu; former Managing Director of the acquired Oceanic Bank, Mrs. Cecilia Ibru. Others are the former inspector general of police, Tafa Balogun; former chairman of military pension board, Bala Mshelia; former group managing director of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Ladan Shehu, and a former head of the petroleum product marketing company, Samuel Okeke, among others. The report, according to its author, is based largely on private data compiled by UAE-based real estate and property professionals.
The UAE-based real estate professionals had in 2016, made the data available to the Center for Advanced Defense Studies (now known as C4ADS) as confidential sources. The centre, however warned that the data did not constitute property deed, which it said was a form of official documentation strictly controlled in the UAE as confidential information.
The report warned, “Further, the data, last updated in 2016, show the affiliation of individuals and entities with Dubai property at that moment in time, and, as such, this paper makes no claim that these affiliations have continued past that year. The mention of any individual, company, organisation, or entity in this paper does not imply the violation of any law or international agreement.” The report also identified possible use of fronts by prominent Nigerians including former Delta State Governor, James Ibori.
According to the report, about four political associates of the former governor were found to have ties to properties in Dubai. “One is linked to four Dubai properties, purchased for a total of $3.8 million, according to Sandcastles data. Another is affiliated with a two-bedroom flat on the 21st floor of the DAMAC Residenze, which, according to the developer, “comes with all the trappings of an indulgent lifestyle,” as well as “uninterrupted panoramic views of the ocean.”
The report further noted that the official reportedly purchased the apartment for over $1.5 million and also bought a flat in another development for $500,000.66. “A third Ibori ally is linked to a two-bedroom flat on the 23rd floor of the DAMAC Residenze that he purchased for over $1.3 million. Yet another is tied to four luxury flats in Dubai, purchased for just over $2 million in total,” the report added. There is also a businessman involved in technology and petroleum sectors, Shehu Badamasi, who is said to have created a Dubai property empire worth over 120 million dollars. He is said to have accomplished this despite being well-known to Nigerian law enforcement. The report noted that Badamasi asserted that he and his companies do not, as of February 2020, own any Dubai real estate. “When asked to clarify whether he owned property prior to 2016—the period covered by the Sandcastles data—he did not deny owning it.” The businessman was said to be known to the EFCC having been allegedly arrested, at least twice, for alleged criminal conspiracy, fraud, and diversion of credit facility worth roughly N17.7 billion. “Badamasi appears to have owned Dubai property through two firms he controls. Through Nujuum Ventures, he was linked to 89 properties. He also holds an 11 per cent stake in Secure Electronic Technology (formerly the Nigerian Sports Lottery) through Nujuum. Badamasi’s other major corporate vehicle is Tanzila Petroleum, a petroleum products trading company. Through Tanzila, he was affiliated with 25 Dubai properties, purchased for a total of 25.7 million dollars,” report said.