Mary Nnah An indigenous firm, MG Vowgas Limited has continued to receive accolades over the award it clinched at the just concluded Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (NIPS). The firm won the award in the “Local Content Company of the Year” category which was contested by several companies doing business in the country. The award is coming on the heels of its building a specialised air boat that has the capability to move on land and on water. Called air ballistic boat, the river craft has features that can be fitted with arms and ammunition that can fire in any military operation on land or sea. The engineering, procurement, construction and installation (EPCI) firm which is the operator of the Mount Zion Fabrication Yard in Port Harcourt, Rivers State was lauded for the strides it has made since it started operation in the heart of the oil and gas rich-Niger Delta region over a decade ago. The Group Managing Director of MG Vowgas Limited, Mr. Godwin Izomor disclosed that besides the state-of-the-art facilities that can handle various types of jobs in the oil and gas industry hitherto carried out outside the shores of Nigeria, the firm also has the required manpower to carry out its various operations. One of the players in the oil, gas and maritime industries, Mr. Lawrence Nwachukwu said indigenous companies like MG Vowgas Limited should be encouraged by the government to meet the yearnings and aspirations of Nigeria and Nigerians. Nwachukwu argued that if indigenous firms are supported by the government and its agencies, they would be in a position to provide the much needed employment opportunities for many Nigerians presently roaming the streets for non-existing jobs. “If in its own little way, this company can do this, imagine what it will do if it is given the desired support by the government. “I can tell you without any fear of contradiction that not only MG Vowgas Limited but other firms would be in a position to address the numerous challenges posed by unemployment in the country. It will also address the issue of insecurity in the country.”