In a bid to prevent the spread of COVID-19 to Kwara State, the State Governor, Mr. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has ordered that all civil servants in the state should work from home until further notice. Those exempted from the order are staffs of the State’s Ministry of Health and workers engaged in essential services. AbdulRazaq also ordered the closure of all public and private nurseries, primary and secondary schools and all state-owned tertiary institutions in the state. A press release that was personally signed by the governor stated that all gatherings of more than 25 people would be discouraged until further notice. He clarified: “Currently, we have no confirmed case of COVID-19 in Kwara State. However, as a proactive government, and consistent with our determination to upgrade healthcare infrastructure in Kwara State, I have since approved funding for the construction of an isolation center at the onset of our administration. In Kwara State, we are following the lead of the Federal government by mobilising all resources available to us to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in Kwara State.” The state governor enjoined all Kwarans to get involved in this fight against COVID-19 because the desired results would be achieved only if and when the people are properly sensitised on how to protect their communities from the virus. “We are determined to continue to make the necessary investments in healthcare to safeguard the lives of our people. A 20-bed high-quality isolation center has been completed and equipped at Sobi Specialist Hospital and plans are underway to build additional and well-equipped 12-bed intensive care unit at the General Hospital, Ilorin,” he said. The governor has also put in place a “COVID-19 Technical Committee” comprising healthcare professionals and officials, which is headed by the Deputy Governor, Mr. Kayode Alabi, to assist his administration in combating COVID-19 in Kwara State. He reassured all Kwarans of the determination of his administration to prevent, contain, and limit the impact of the pandemic on the people as the welfare, security and well-being of all Kwarans were of utmost importance to the state government. “As a community, we must do everything possible to prevent any transmission of COVID-19 by embracing the concept of social distancing and self-isolation. These measures are to prevent anyone that may be infected with COVID-19 from spreading the disease to others. An exponential spread of COVID-19 in our community might be catastrophic because we could have thousands of our citizens sick at the same time,” the governor said.