Chuks Okocha in Abuja Former vice president and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the last general election, Atiku Abubakar, has clarified the circumstances that led to one of his sons being tested positive to the Coronavirus pandemic. Atiku, in a statement by his media aide, Paul Ibe, said the clarification was to stem the various misinformation about his son being tested positive to the virus. According to him, “The clinical case returned to the country on 17th March via Switzerland from some business engagements in France and Switzerland. “He attended a private meeting of six (6) persons same day in Lagos, stayed in his private house for the night and took an Aero 5.20pm flight to Abuja on the 18th.” He said that his son did not travel with his family or any other persons, but travelled alone by Emirates Airline and moreover that he wore face mask as a precautionary measure since his arrival in Nigeria. He said his son did not show symptoms of infection and that he voluntarily placed a call to NCDC on arrival in Abuja late on the 18th to inform them he had returned from COVID-19 prone country and desired to be tested. “On the 19th, NCDC took his blood sample which result came positive on the 20th. He subsequently went into self isolation to protect his family within his own house,” he said. In the meantime, he said his son has since tested negative while his wife’s result is being awaited, adding that the two persons are currently in self isolation. The former vice therefore said: “We urge members of the public to disregard the perfidious information that the case accessed open locations. He was not at Play Lounge nor any other club in Abuja as being mischievously bandied about.” He also explained that his son neither attended the Friday Jumat prayers nor any social gathering until his evacuation to Gwagwalada Specialist Hospital on the 20th where he is being treated and managed. He thanked Nigerians for their prayers and support through this difficult time, adding: “Once again, it needs to be restated that the risk and danger of #COVID19 is real. Ensure you follow the World Health Organisation and Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) guidelines on how to stay safe.”