By Laleye Dipo Niger State Government has assured internally displaced people (IDPs) of adequate welfare and protection of their lives and property despite the dwindling resources of the government. Following numerous bandits’ attacks on some communities in the state, the government established IDP camps at Kuta in the Shiroro Local Government Area, Kagara in the Rafi LGA and Sarkinpawa in the Munya LGA. The Director-General of the Niger State Emergency Management Agency (NSEMA), Alhaji Ibrahim Ahmed Inga, who gave the assurance during an interactive session with journalists in Minna at the weekend, said three local government areas of Shiroro, Rafi and Munya were most hit by bandits’ attacks resulting in not more than 1,200 displaced people. Inga said: “The IDPs camps located in Kagara, Kuta, and Sarkinpawa are the busiest as a result of the persistent banditry in communities in these areas. “Presently, no fewer than about 1,187 IDPs are in the camp at Kuta, while about 92 IDPs are also in the camp at Kagara. We also have some of them taking refuge in private homes provided by private individuals in two local government areas that are even more than those were established in the camps.” The director-general explained that most of the IDPs are women because some of the men have found their ways out of the camps. He stated further that the government has been committing huge sums of money to take care of the IDPs, adding that apart from their personal wares and those of their children, “the government of Governor Abubakar Bello has provided food items, medication and other essentials to the IDPs.” Inga described the banditry in the rural communities in some parts of the state “as a very serious tragedy,” conceding however that at the moment, “some IDPs have started returning to their respective homes in the communities following relative return of normalcy in the earlier troubled areas. “Government will encourage the IDPs to return to their ancestral homes to start a new lives especially now that the new farming season is about to start.”