Rich in diversity, buoyant in its economy and expansive in its landscape, Houston, described as the coolest city in America has what it takes to make you feel at home. Funke Olaode visited the city recently and found out the city’s outdoor pleasure including the famous NASA Johnson Space Center. The sun shone brightly on its inhabitants just like the cool breeze blew relentlessly on its first-time visitors. Having visited a few states in God’s own country in the past, I was looking forward to extreme weather. But Houston is different. During my brief stay in the oil-rich state, the environment was neither cold nor warm. It was normal weather that reminds me of my home country, Nigeria and Lagos State where I reside. My journey to Houston, described as the coolest city in America began when I got an impromptu invitation from the initiator of Akwaaba Travels and Tourism and publisher of Travellers Magazine, Nkechi Uko to accompany Ethiopian Airlines on its inaugural flight to Houston. The journey was historical because it marked the first direct flight from Africa to Houston, the home to over 250,000 Africans with Nigeria having the highest population. Literarily, you can call the city an extension of Lagos. It was an unforgettable experience for me and my colleagues; Adewale Sanyaolu of The Sun Newspapers, Yunus Yusuf of News Agency of Nigeria and Osas of Nigeria Television Authority (NTA). Ethiopian Airlines’ management treated us to a first-class treatment. A bullet-proof car was available to take us everywhere. Hilton Americas, a five-star hotel located in Downtown with a maximum of $1,800 per night where we lodged was befitting for a VIP. That Houston is one of the richest states in America is an understatement. It is headquarters to most of the oil companies and it prides itself as the most diverse place with more than 142 languages spoken there.
In Houston, one can observe that governance, leadership, and tourism go hand in hand. Settling down in my hotel room, as I turned on the gigantic screen, the image of Mayor of Houston, Sylvester Turner emerged. The mayor talked glowing about the city in a two-minute pre-recorded video, which to me surpasses any advertorial: “My name is name Sylvester Turner and I am the Mayor of Houston. It is my pleasure to welcome you to one of the most dynamic, vibrant cities in the world.
“In this city, if you can dream it you can achieve it here. We have even been called the coolest city in the country. More than 142 languages spoken here. We hold the title as the most diverse city in the nation. You can sample the different cultures of the world right here in one location we have an entrepreneurial spirit in us that drives our diversify economy. Houston is the oil capital. In downtown, you will find many parks. We have the best restaurants with award-winning chefs.” In a few seconds, the mayor succeeded in selling the city to the first time visitor and that arose my curiosity to explore.
Though a very short stay, we had the opportunity to view the iconic places from the confinement of the car such as Museums, Parks, various refineries that are scattered everywhere, the landscape, the restaurant where we dined, the jaw-dropping road networks.
Again, if you are a first time visitor, the hope of getting a tube train or surface train and even public transport may be dashed as public transport is scarce (I didn’t sight any throughout my stay). Everybody cruises around in big and flashy cars. Truly the city is an abode for ‘big boys’. One of the most side attractions in Houston is NASA Johnson Space Center located in NASA Parkway. The Centre manned by Space Flight Education Foundation is a sight to behold. Less than 24 hours before we departed the coolest city, the crew led by the General Manager, Ethiopian Airlines in Nigeria Firiehiwot Mekonnen led us to the center. On the ground to welcome us into its abode was the Public Relations Specialist of the center, Zahra Ahmed. Ahmed was so versed explaining how the various section works that within an hour, I was transformed into a scientist with knowledge on space exploration. Founded in 1992, the Space Center Houston has remained the cornerstone of its mission to inspire all generations through the wonders of space exploration. Over the last 28 years, the center has broken all-time attendance record and has welcomed more than 20 million people and hosts nearly 1.1 million visitors annually at its 250,000-square-foot educational complex. The Center earned a 2016 Top Workplace Award by The Houston Chronicle and generates annually a $118.7 million economic impact, 1,710 jobs and $53.7 million in personal income in greater Houston, according to a 2018 economic study by Quanticon, LLC researchers Stephen Cotton, PhD, and Jason Murasko. With emphasis on STEM education to inspire students to engage in science, the Center uses exploration to inspire wonder and interest in science and math. Space Center Houston offers an array of educational programming for teachers and students, providing extraordinary learning opportunities. It inspires young people to choose careers in STEM while education programmes are based on evidence of effective learning and methodology. Of many of its side attractions inside the gigantic building, the center features three theatres, live shows, more than 400 space artifacts and numerous permanent and travelling exhibits telling the exciting future and remarkable past of America’s human spaceflight programme.
According to Zahra Ahmed, there is always something new about the center. The Center has the world’s largest collection of moon rocks and lunar samples for public view. It is a home of mission control and astronaut training. Space Center Houston’s permanent exhibits include Independence Plaza presented by Boeing, it is an unprecedented, international landmark standing eight-storey tall and displayed in the ferry configuration. Here, visitors can explore exhibits inside both the shuttle replica and the historic NASA 905 shuttle carrier aircraft. Multiple exhibits grant a rare glimpse into the historic shuttle era and describe its impact on future exploration. The giant complex is the biggest project for Space Center Houston since opening. On its significant strides in offering exceptional, authentic science and space exploration learning opportunities for everyone, President and CEO of the Center, William T. Harris, said, “We are dedicated to advancing innovation and creative thinking to engage visitors in how science, technology, engineering, and mathematics are relevant to our everyday lives as well as exploring space.” With its slogan, ‘We inspire all generations through the wonders of exploration’, Space Center Houston recognized as the number one destination in Houston for international visitors has continued to draw people from around the world to explore the science and space exploration learning center and participate in its learning educational programme.
So when next you visit Houston the coolest city, apart from experiencing the vibes the city has to offer, your journey will never complete until you visit the popular Space Center.