By Bennett Oghifo Kia Motors Nigeria has introduced measures to curtail the spread of the virus and to minimise the chances of their employee and customers’ exposure to the disease and to join responsive corporate entities across the country to restrain the spread of the COVID-19. Rooted in the practice advised by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and National Center for Disease Control (NCDC), personal hygiene had been constantly reinforced in all their locations with designated handwashing places, deployment of the infrared thermometer for temperature checks at the points of entry into the facilities, hand sanitizers, nose masks, social distancing, amongst others. There is no gainsaying the fact the current outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic has taken the world by storm and ravaged cities across the globe, thereby paving the way for extreme measures like social distancing and in some cases, total lockdown. To curtail the spread, measures have been taken by quite a number of companies. At the frontline of this fight, like every person/customer-facing business, the auto industry expectedly needs to be conscious and cautious of the pandemic. Premised on this and having been recognized as one of the socially responsive companies in Nigeria, Kia Motors Nigeria has instituted a more precautionary operational practice in their showrooms and service centers in order to avoid contracting and spreading the coronavirus, as the country comes to grips with a growing pandemic. Further to the measures taken by Kia, the auto company has also restructured its workforce to a more dynamic operational base. In the meantime, quite a number of their staff are advised to work remotely starting March 23rd until further notice — “except those in business-critical roles that cannot be done away from Kia facilities. In addition, we join the WHO and NCDC to strongly advise anyone who feels like they are showing symptoms of COVID-19—which can be as mild as those of a cold, or more serious, like the fever or flu—are advised to seek medical attention and self-isolate while they take care of themselves,” said the Chief Operation Officer, Sanjay Tatpati. People are understandably concerned about the COVID-19. To allay the fears of customers and ensure them of Kia’s readiness to provide premium care for their car and adequately support its customer base during this outbreak, Sanjay further stated that “as a business that interacts with the public on a daily basis, we understand car servicing and repairs may seem essential in this period as health officials advise against public transportation. Thus, we are geared towards ensuring safe, secure and hygiene facilities as spelled out by the WHO. Although we are taking every precaution with our facility and staff, we also have an even better and alternative solution which centers on online booking for service and sales.” In an attempt to make its service readily available to customers, Olawale Jimoh, Marketing Manager of Kia Motors stated that “a responsive customer care outfit is equipped to attend to the sales and service requirements of customers via phone, email, web live chat, WhatsApp & social media platforms to provide real-time answers to any questions the customers’ may have about a vehicle, repair, and servicing, financing or the Online booking tool. With our digital platforms, the power of car shopping and servicing are firmly in the hands of our customers and can save time at our locations, as well as, money in this critical time”. The unprecedented situation arising out of the spread of COVID-19 has already taken a toll on the automotive industry. With almost all companies, from the financial institutions to public service taking serious measures, Kia Motors Nigeria has joined in on the need to restructure their business operations to help curtail the spread of the Virus. It has done so keeping in mind the safety and well-being of all customers, employees, workers, partners, and associates across the country. The company’s outlets will remain open for now and will be available to its customers for all their requirements. The company is ensuring deliveries are not delayed for its customers as well as service requirements, without compromising on the safety precautions sent out by the government.