When he starred for Chelsea in the Carabao at 17 years, 10 months and two days, Faustino Anjorin became the youngest player of Nigerian descent to star for a Premier League side. Beyond that, however, starring in the Premier League was his dream and it came to pass when was introduced in last weekend’s Blues 4-0 demolition of Everton Poole-born midfielder of Nigerian descent, Faustino Anjorin has spoken of his happiness at making his English Premier League debut for Chelsea in their 4-0 hammering of Everton at Stamford Bridge on Sunday, March 8, 2020. The England U-19 international entered the pitch as a substitute in the 71st minute to replace Willian and only a great tackle from Toffees defender Djibril Sidibe in the 81st minute prevented him from finding the net in his maiden appearance in the English top-flight.
Eleven years after Anjorin’s arrival at Stamford Bridge, he pulled on a Chelsea shirt with the number 55 on the back for the first time in the Premier League. Writing on Instagram on Monday, Anjorin said: “I’m so happy to make my Premier League debut yesterday (on Saturday) for both myself and my family.
“It’s been a long road and I know I have further to go but thank you to the academy staff at Chelsea for helping me get this far!”
Reacting to Faustino’s debut, his proud Nigerian dad Sheriff Anjorin tweeted: “I’m not sure it’s even possible to be more proud. Stay humble.”
Fasutino Anjorin made his professional debut for Chelsea in their League Cup win Vs Grimsby Town last September and was on the bench in the recent Emirates FA Cup win against Liverpool. Chelsea midfielder, Anjorin made history for Premier League Club, Chelsea as he came on in the 7-1 thrashing of Grimsby Town in the Carabao Cup.
Anjorin became the youngest player of Nigerian descent to debut for Chelsea in a UK football competition, breaking the record previously held by Fikayo Tomori (another Nigerian), who was aged 18 years, 4 months and 26 days when he debuted for Chelsea in the Premier League in May 2016. He was given a chance by the club’s new management team, after the teenager, enjoyed a blistering start to the season, scoring five goals in his first seven games for Chelsea’s U-23.- including a brace in the EFL Trophy win over Swindon last month.
He is currently Chelsea’s development group top goalscorer, opening his account in the UEFA Youth League, Premier League 2 and the EFL Trophy.
Anjorin is a classic midfield powerhouse – who grew up idolising current Blues manager Frank Lampard. Lampard, who has made it his mission to promote the youngsters this term has faith in the raw talent, as does his assistant Jody Morris – and the pair have been impressed by Anjorin’s rapid rise since they arrived in the summer.
His progress within the Blues academy has seen him compared to fellow graduate Ruben Liftus-Cheek, who also impressed at the youth level.
Anjorin was born in Poole to a Nigerian father and an English mum.
He was named after the Colombian legend Faustino Asprilla who famously became the first player to score a hat-trick against Barcelona in the Champions League when he was playing up front for Newcastle. By the age of seven Anjorin was scouted by Chelsea and invited to train in their youth set-up before officially joining at the age of nine.
It was a dream come true for the boy, who idolised John Obi Mikel and wanted to play for the same club.
By the age of 16, Anjorin, who stands at an impressive 6ft 1 in, lifted the FA Youth Cup. Not only was he the youngest player in the Chelsea side that beat Arsenal 7-1, his goal to end the rout was the icing on the cake.
Internationally, Anjorin’s form has been equally as impressive as it has for his club, and the FA have high hopes for him.
He has played for England at every junior level up to the U-19’s, but without a full cap to his name there could be a tussle with Nigeria for his services in the future. Both-footed, Anjorin has a contract with Chelsea that doesn’t expire until 2021 but the club is already looking to tie him down to a longer deal.
Technically he’s underrated, despite his lanky frame, runs with the ball at pace and is strong in possession. And he’s got decent vision, often able to pick out the perfect pass for a forward to run on to. But it is his finishing that helps him stand out from the crowd. In fact, Jody Morris once revealed he was the “best finisher at the club.”
Born in Poole on the south coast of England, Anjorin can choose to play for either the three-time African Champions or the Three Lions. He was discovered to be very talented at a young age and it was Chelsea that beat other London clubs to the signature of the midfielder. It can be revealed that Anjorin chose to join the Stamford Bridge outfit at the age of seven because they have the best academy in England to this day. An England U-18 international, Anjorin has made a big impact for Chelsea’s youth teams this season, with the highlight being a seven-game scoring run, and was rewarded with a three-year professional deal in November 2018, shortly after he turned 17. He has been utilised in the youth setup and has also debuted for Chelsea’s U-23 team as he is highly rated.
The youngster who has represented England at U-16, U-17 and the U-18 level is still eligible to play for the Super Eagles of Nigeria due to his parents and he has not played for the English senior set up.