Iyke Bede With a global decline in the number of sickle cell disease (SCD) cases, this genetic disease continues to see a rise in countries like India, The Democratic Republic of Congo, and Nigeria. All three countries collectively account for 90 percent of global cases, with Nigeria having the highest frequency. Actively driving the conversation on SCD awareness and education is Verte View Entertainment. Bolstered by its collaboration with The Sickle Cell Foundation of Nigeria, this relationship has birth ‘Strain’, a film positioned to affect positive change in individuals from all walks of life on the subject of SCD. Under the direction of Uduak-Obong Patrick, the script took a 17-month period of research on the subject to develop in order to reveal context for billed actors to assimilate. Veering away from documentary style of filmmaking usually employed to reveal data and facts on health issues as this one, ‘Strain’ adopts a feature film format to help viewers connect with the actors’ emotions whilst gaining an education in the process. Inspired by true-life events, the story plot centres on a family discovering and coming to terms with the episodic crisis their child suffers from SCD. This ultimately sets off a chain of reaction that reverberates within the family, extended family, and the community at large. Although not a new topic in the healthcare landscape, Patrick reiterated on the need to constantly inform the masses to heed precautionary steps. “The movie is very close to my heart, and it is apt that we are projecting such stories in a time when there is so much information out there, but people make the same mistake all over, and again,” he concluded. To bring the script to life, revered Nollywood acts Alex Usifo, Bimbo Akintola, and Gloria Anozie-Young were commissioned to play pivotal roles. Also, on the line-up of acts are Okey Uzoeshi, and child actors Kosi Ogboruche and Sapphire Ekeng. It also introduces to the silver screen Shushu Abubakar, a former sales consultant, in a lead role. Currently in post-production, the film is expected to hit cinemas in the second quarter of this year. On her part, producer Oluwatoyin Adewumi, hints what distribution pattern the production team will adopt to ensure that the project’s reach is amplified to get to its target audiences. “One of the things we noticed during the research was that we saw people from low background come into the sickle cell foundation for treatment. And when you see such people, you know that there is a lot around ignorance, even around poverty, for them to not be able to take care of these children after birth. One of the things we are trying to do is take this beyond the cinemas.”