Daji Sani in Yola Adamawa State chapter of the International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) has described the increasing rate of rape, incest and other forms of sexual violence against women and girls in the state as alarming. FIDA state chairperson, Barr. Halima Abdulraman, made the revelation at a one-day training workshop on how to eliminate all forms of violence against women, convened by Clear View Integrity Foundation (CVIF) at Alheri Hotel in Yola, sponsored by the EU/UN, Spotlight Initiative.
She said cases of rape and incest had become so rampant in the state, with fathers having sexual intercourse with their daughters. Abdulraman explained that mothers’ confessions on incest and rape cases were alarming, adding that lack of concrete evidence to nail perpetrators has always hindered prosecution. “That is why the perpetrators of many rape cases go scot free for lack of evidence to proof in court that they actually committed the crime
“It is disturbing for a father to have sexual intercourse with his daughter while young brothers harass their sisters for sex. The situations are becoming worrisome and alarming in the state,” she said. She blamed hard drugs as one of the major factors influencing such shameful and condemnable behaviour. Abdulraman said FIDA had been creating awareness to parents and rape victims on how to preserve evidence so that the perpetrators would be brought to book. She said she handled a case of incest involving a father who withdrew his biological daughter from JSS 3 only to marry her.
The chairperson added that she pursued the case until the man was convicted and sentenced for that act. “Policy-makers and all stakeholders need to be decisive on protecting the women and the Child Rights Act. Also speaking at the event, Adamawa State Programme Officer for UN/UNFPA, Dr. Danlami Idrisu, said the reason for the capacity building workshop was to create awareness on the importance of enacting the Child Rights Act that would support the stoppage of some cultural norms that put womenfolk at a disadvantage in the society. He explained that the training was to prepare stakeholders in the fight to eliminate all forms of violence against womenfolk. CVIF Adamawa State Coordinator, Dr. Sunday Amos, said the foundation was saddled with the responsibilities of implementing the project in the state. He condemned the alarming rate of homosexuality, lesbianism, incest and rape in the state, calling on governments at all levels, parents, religious and traditional leaders to collaborate and fight the menace.