Ekom Simon Water Heater is one of the essential electrical appliances installed in homes, hotels as well as hospitals to deliver comfort, convenience and pleasure by providing hot water for bathing, cooking, cleaning and more. The importance of water heaters cannot be overemphasised most especially during the raining and harmattan season as it delivers hot water for bathing. It is important during the whole year not only to enjoy comfort but also to take care one’s health. Water heater is actually for all and sundry, it is not as expensive as one might think. The use of a water heater to heat the water makes everyone lives’ easier and safer: it is much safer than heating the water with fire or boiling rings. Most importantly, it is necessary to have this kind of safety when the time arises to talk about babies and elderly people. But of course, being an electrical home appliance, there are some aspects that people really have to pay attention on to guarantee the correct use of the product and avoid any negative implication. First of all, the proper electrification of the house. It is fundamental to pay maximum attention to wiring and using proper electrical cables at home to prevent danger. Secondly, the correct installation of the water heaters is also key. The views of many experts in the sector is for customers to always refer to brand for support on installation and update on best practices in handling the appliances. In this digital era, the good brands should have online presence via social media platform or websites from where they can easily be reached. Associated with improper installation is the use of substandard installation kits including electrical cables. From findings, homeowners have always paid less attention to wiring and electrification of their properties but give more attention to furniture and aesthetics whereas any electrical problem from wiring and electrification could lead to some unfortunate events. It is in the best interest of everyone to be concerned about proper wiring and earthing of their properties to prevent danger Good water heaters, from experience, usually come with a lot of safety feature to ensure maximum safety. For example, the Ariston Water Heater, which is a European standard brand, offers quality and peace of mind. Choosing a good and quality standard water heater in addition to safety, also saves a lot of energy as only good brands comes with energy saving features thereby helping the users to save a great deal on electricity cost. Water heater, like every other electrical appliance, is considered generally safe for domestic use especially if consumers buy only trusted brands, ensure proper installation and service regularly for optimum performance of the products.