Davidson Iriekpen The Rivers State Governor, Mr. Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, last night berated the Imo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, for alleging that the PDP was responsible for the attempted removal of National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Adams Oshiomhole, saying that the allegation is baseless and untrue. Wike also declared that the APC is out to destroy the judiciary, urging the third arm of government to protect itself from the destructive tendencies of the APC.
In an interview at the Government House Port Harcourt, the governor said the comments credited to Uzodinma were unfortunate. He wondered how Uzodinma got the temerity to make that false allegation, alleging that he was an APC agent while he was in PDP. Wike recalled that that was why APC used the Imo State governor as an agent to support Ali Modu Sheriff.
He said: “I read that Senator Hope Uzodinma said that the PDP conspired to plot the attempted removal of APC National Chairman. That is an unfortunate lie. “It is unfortunate that Uzodinma will have the temerity to make that false allegation. He was an APC agent while he was in PDP. That was why APC used him as an agent to support Ali Modu Sheriff, but they failed. “Uzodinma cannot talk about the attempted removal of APC National Chairman and mention the PDP. What is our business in the attempted removal of Oshiomhole?” Wike said that the APC is not a political party that means well for the country.
“APC does not mean well for Nigeria. It is a party of strange bedfellows merely formed to take over power. “If Uzodinma dares to make such false comments again about the PDP, we will tell the world about him. “That he fraudulently took the mandate of PDP does not mean that PDP is weak. Hope Uzodinma lacks the capacity to discuss the PDP.” Wike said that Nigerians must be vigilant and work towards protecting the judiciary.
“We must protect the judiciary to do its work. But the judiciary should protect itself. APC has destroyed the judiciary,” he said.
The Rivers State governor wondered why the judiciary should allow leaders of the APC to toss it around as has been witnessed during the party’s internal crisis. He decried the situation where the Court of Appeal granted a stay of execution on the suspension of the APC National Chairman, but the FCT High Court went ahead to declare another person the Acting National Chairman.
He said only the National Executive Committee of political parties has such powers.
He said: “The judiciary should be very careful. The Judiciary should be alert. It should not allow itself to be used. It should not allow itself to be destroyed. “APC should not be allowed to destroy the judiciary. Judiciary was there before APC. It was there before any political party. I cannot see the judiciary being destroyed and keep quiet.
“I am not interested in what happens in the APC. But I am concerned with the judiciary and its survival. “
He urged the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad, to caution judges.
“With what the APC is doing today, we may not have the Judiciary and everyone will pay the price. The party is trying to destroy the hope of the common man,” he said. Wike regretted that the APC and her supporters attack the judiciary when judgment is not in their favour.
He referred to the attacks on Justice Mary Odili over the Bayelsa State governorship matter. The governor said the recent order by the wife of the member of the House of Representatives wherein she reaffirmed the freedom of the former Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi, was hailed, even though she was the wife of a PDP member. He noted that the APC is an association that was only concerned about the removal of former President Goodluck Jonathan, adding that having achieved the purpose, it has been unable to use power to the advantage of Nigerians. The governor wondered how a national official of the APC who resigned to contest the deputy governorship position in Rivers State, would still go to court to seek to be Acting National Chairman. Wike agreed with the former Governor of Lagos State that the struggle in the APC is about 2023.
“I agree with the former Lagos State Governor, Senator Bola Tinubu, that the crisis in APC is about 2023. Everyone wants to be president or vice president. This virus is indeed worse than coronavirus,” he said.