By John Shiklam in Kaduna The late General Secretary of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in the 19 Northern state and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mr. Danladi Yerima was laid to rest on Saturday in his Kufana village, Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna state amidst encomium by Christian leaders. Yerima died in Kaduna on Wednesday March 11, following a brief illness.
Speaking at the funeral service attended by thousands of symphathisers at ECWA English Service Sabon Tasha, Kaduna, Chairman of the Northern Christian Elders Forum (NOSCEF), Mr. Ejoga Inalegwu, said Yerima was a bold and courageous fighter for the church and his Adara nation. “I work closely with him in CAN and NOSCEF, he was an honest and transparent person, who believes in hard work.”
Ejoga said the deceased was “a uniting force among Christians and Muslims .
“He was a bold, courageous and fearless fighter. He fought against injustice and oppression against the Church and against his Adara people” Ejoga said. Also speaking, the Chairman of Northern CAN, Rev. Yakubu Pam described the deceased as a loyal and committed servant of God.
Wife of the of the deceased, Mrs. Hajaratu Yerima, described her late husband as a loving and caring man.
She said her husband was a friend to all. “I am proud of him. We lived with him for 34 years and he taught me to respect, humility, he taught me that in every circumstances, I should give glory to God, he taught me faith… “My husband was a friend to the poor, the needy and the rich and a friend to the oppressed. He was very generou and accommodating to all.
I want to assure that we will carry on with the legacies he has left behind” she said. Also in his tribute, President of the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU), Hon. Jonathan Asake, noted Yerima who served at various times as the secretary of SOKAPU as well as the President of the Adara Development Association (ADA), devoted his life to the “relentless fight against the viruses of injustice and oppression of the southern Kaduna people and the Adara nation.”
Asake recalled that after the kidnapping and gruesome killing of the Paramount ruler of the Adara Chiefdom, the Agom Adara, Mr. Maiwada Galadima in October 2018, nobody has been appointed to occupy the stool. “Following that, no chief has been appointed into the position up till now, the Chiefdom was balkanised and an emirate was created and the name of the Adara Chiefdom was changed.
“That is the arrogance of power that Yerima was fighting against. Yerima was fighting against injustice in all aspects of our lives.
“Yerima was fighting against viruses that were oppressing Christians and ethnic minorities. “There is an urban development going on in Kaduna city, but I see it only in one Local government – Kaduna north.
“In the southern part of Kaduna city, with all the available resources, I have not seen anything apply to our people.
“The only thing I see in our place is the threat of demolition. Yerima was a great fighter, a crusader for justice…Let us live his legacies” Asake said.
Also speaking Mr. Sunday Oibe, a former National Officer of CAN and bossom friend of the Yerima, said the deceased was a “fearless and a dangerous risk taker.” Oibe said: “Yerima is a dangerous risk taker. The death of Danladi has opened another lexicon concerning death and life.
“Because of his passion for the liberation of Adara land, he mobilise us some years ago to fast and pray for his people.
“As a social crusader, he fought many battles. Even at death, you can see that battles are being fought on his behalf and the battles are still raging. “He was a selfless leader. He considered other people’s interest before his own.
“As a lawyer he had no time for himself than Adara people.
I pray that the Adara people will now know that a vacuum has been created. I pray that the Church in Nigeria will celebrate this man beyond this gathering. I pray that Yerima will live on. Danladi fought for the unity of Christians and Muslims. “He lived and died for the Adara people. May God cause you to love his family and care for them”.
In his funeral sermon, Evangelists Matthew Owojaiye noted that the deceased lived a righteous life and served the church and his people diligently. “Yarima was soft spoken but bold, he was committed and always say and stand by the truth.
“He overworked himself because there were no other people to do the work and be committed. He served God and he lived a righteous live.
“He didn’t steal money or collected money from politicians to build a fine house” he said.