Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo and Sawo Fadeji in Gombe Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State and his Gombe State counterpart, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, have felicitated with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on the occasion of his 63rd birthday anniversary. Oyetola in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, commended Osinbajo for the sterling leadership qualities he has exhibited as the vice president of the country and head of the National Economic Council (NEC). The governor described Osinbajo as a successful legal practitioner, an accomplished public servant, committed and patriotic Nigerian, whose commitment to the unity and progress of the country is never in doubt. He appreciated him for his selfless service to the nation, noting that the country and its people have benefited immensely from his vast knowledge and brilliance, wealth of experience in public service and leadership qualities. Oyetola said: “I thank God on your behalf for the remarkable achievements and accomplishments he has enabled you to record both in private and public life. You are a great leader whose attributes are worthy of emulation by the younger generation of Nigerians.” The governor also praised the vice president for being a faithful and dependable ally of President Muhammadu Buhari, saying he is doing well to assist the president in achieving his administration’s agenda of tackling security, fighting corruption and revamping the country’s economy. On his own, the Gombe State Governor, Yahaya, also felicitated with Osinbajo as he clocks 63 today. In a message issued on behalf of the state government and the people of the state, which was signed by the Senior Special Assistant (Media and Publicity)to the state governor, Ismaila Uba Misilli, and made available to journalists at the weekend, Yahaya described Osinbajo as a cerebral leader with exceptional humility which has always manifested while carrying out his duties. The governor noted that in his capacity as the vice president and chairman of the Nigerian Economic Council (NEC), Osinbajo has always brought to bear his acumen, and demonstrated experience and patriotism in handling matters of national interest. He commended Osinbajo’s exemplary leadership, loyalty and commitment to nation building. While wishing the vice president a happy birthday celebration, the Gombe state governor prayed God Almighty to continue to bless him with good health and many years of robust service to Nigeria.