Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has clarified that the autonomy the state government granted some communities is not targeted at weakening some kingdoms or punishing some traditional rulers in the state. Fayemi assured that the autonomy granted some communities was carried out to enhance development and bring government nearer to the grassroots. He made the clarification on Friday at the presentation of the instrument of appointment and staff of office to Oba Matthew Jegede as the first Alahan of Ahan Ayegunle Ekiti, Ekiti East Local Government Area (LGA). Alahan was the fourth monarch to be coronated for the new autonomous communities in the last two weeks by the Fayemi administration. At the presentation, Fayemi said the autonomy was not an attempt to unreasonably factionalize or disintegrate hitherto compact communities but a response to the genuine demand of people who believe their recognition would foster development. He explained that the exercise was not designed “to breed hatred, rancour, nepotism and other negative dispositions that could negate harmonious coexistence with the former allied towns.” Fayemi urged the people of Ahan Ayegunle Ekiti to live peacefully with their neighbouring communities like Omuo Ekiti and Omuo Oke Ekiti stressing that the peaceful coexistence of people in the state is non-negotiable since it is the hallmark of development. He opined that the coronation ceremony was premised on the granting of autonomy to Ahan Ayegunle adding that the exercise confirmed with the best practices across the globe, which are essentially development-focused. He used the forum to laud the contributions of the traditional institution to peaceful coexistence in the state describing it as a “veritable tool of governance” with its reconciliatory and advisory roles. He enjoined Jegede “to exercise the divine power conferred on him with restraint urging the monarch to serve with diligence, sacrifice and perseverance adding that the responsibilities of developing the town lie on his shoulders.” In his remarks, the Permanent Secretary, Bureau of Chieftaincy Affairs, Mr. Adeniyi Familoni, said the autonomy and recognition granted Ahan Ayegunle was in line with Section 6A(1) and (2) of the Chiefs Law of Ekiti State Cap C5 of 2012. Familoni further disclosed that the monarch was was selected in consonance with Section 8 of Ekiti State Chiefs Law of 2012 and the Customary Law. Chairman, Ekiti East Local Government, Mr. Esan Ogunjobi, promised that the community would soon begin to enjoy rapid social and economic development with the ascension of the Oba. The council boss urged indigenes of Ahan Ayegunle at home and abroad to support their traditional ruler to engender peace and development. In his acceptance speech, the monarch promised to uphold and protect the culture and tradition of his people and rule them with the fear of God. The monarch also pledged to focus on the issues of security and welfare of his subjects and carry out reforms in palace administration in order to be responsive to the people. He called the attention of the state government to the deplorable condition of Araromi Ugbesi-Ahan Ayegunle Road and mineral deposits in his domain.