Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The House of Representatives has resolved to carry out a fresh probe into allegations that the former Director General of the Nigeria Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Prof. Bola Akinterinwa, incurred a lot of debts for the institute arising from his alleged reckless spending on personal travels and contract awards without recourse to budgetary allocations or available funds. The committee chaired by Hon. Oluwole Oke is investigating deliberate and reckless refusal by non-treasury and partially funded agencies to render their audited accounts covering the period from 2014 to 2018. Akinterinwa, while appearing before the House Committee on Public Accounts at the weekend, alleged that a system of entrenched corruption and manipulation by those heading the account section of the institute was responsible for the failure to render audited accounts for almost 10 years. He accused the former Director, Finance and Admin of the Institute, Agatha Udeh, of “unbridled corruption, insincerity and insurbordination”, which he said was aided by a former Director General, Prof. Osita and the then Chairman, Governing Council, Senator Ike Nwachukwu. Akinterinwan noted that the institute lagged behind in submitting audited reports due to the professional incompetence of the DFA, Udeh, to the extent that he had to write to the Auditor General of the Federation to send a seasoned accountant to manage the accounts department, adding that the accountant sent to him was equally frustrated out of the place. Asked how he resolved the issues, he said he reported the matter to Nwachukwu and his response was, “Noted”. Akinterinwa alleged that with the collusion of the Governing Council, so much corruption was perpetrated even under his watch as Director General, adding that he told the panel that his outstanding payment of N4 million should be released to him. But on her part, the Director of Research and Documentation, Abimbola Dada, alleged that Akinterinwa may be a brilliant individual, but was poor in leadership due to high handedness and abuse of office. She recalled that a petition written and signed by herself and Udeh, now at large, was the reason why he was asked to go after his first tenure expired in 2015. According to her, “The reason why the institution did not pay the former DG his outstanding claims was because he engaged in reckless spending mostly on personal travels and tours without recourse to government financial regulation and as such could not be paid. Dada alleged further that he incurred a lot of debts which the institute is struggling to clear, including fees to contractors he engaged to do certain works without budgetary allocations nor releases. Allegations made by Dada were corroborated by the current DG, Prof. Bukar Bukarambe, as well as the Director of Finance and Admin, Mrs. Bridget Otoboh who said all the documents were available to prove the allegations. The committee however ruled that the allegations were too weighty to be overlooked, and therefore directed Akinterinwa to submit his claims of N4 million debt and the current DG, Bukarembu, should also submit his own defence as to why he shouldn’t be paid. The committee ruled that a probe be carried out to clear the issues raised and make recommendations as appropriate, while also calling on the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation to as a matter of necessity separate the Finance department from that of Administration.