Real Madrid are ready to let Gareth Bale leave for a cut-price fee of £22million as they continue to try and free up their hefty wage bill. Bale is reportedly desperate to leave the Spanish champions but the club are reluctant to pay off the remaining two years of his contract worth £30.2m. Bale claimed recently that Real were making it ‘very difficult’ for him to leave the club. But reports in Spain now suggest that Real would be prepared to let him go should an offer of £22m be made for the 31-year-old. According to Mundo Deportivo, Real Madrid Manager, Zinedine Zidane, doesn’t want Bale at the club but the board will only let him leave for a fee. Zidane is meeting with Bale this week to decide what the next steps will be. The sale of James Rodriguez to Everton for £20m earlier this week has already helped cut Real’s annual wage bill down from £312m and Bale’s departure would reduce it further. The biggest sticking point for any side wanting to sign Bale is his weekly salary, which is put at £600,000 a week. Manchester United are one side who could afford that but their interest in Borussia Dortmund’s Jadon Sancho is still active. Tottenham have also been credited with a strong interest in their former player but money would be an issue. Bale did try to leave for the Chinese Super League before the start of last season but that move was blocked by Real. The Wales international told Sky Sports last week that the La Liga giants haven’t made it easy for him to find a new club. He said: “I tried to leave last year and they blocked everything at the last second. It was a project I was excited for but it didn’t materialise. “There have been other instances where we have tried to go but the club won’t allow it or they have done something. “So I guess it is for the club (to answer about what will happen). What can I say? I want to play football. I am still motivated to play football so I guess it is on the club really. I can’t do anything, they are in control of everything “I have a contract so all I can do is carry on what I am doing an hopefully something comes up. “It is in the club’s hands and they have made things very difficult to be honest,” concludes Bale.