Amber Energy Drinks Limited, maker of premium energy drink, Amber, has taken his empowerment campaign to radio stations in Lagos. Recently, the company launched a scheme tagged “Amber Empowerment Scheme” (AES), to improve the standard of living of Nigerians, especially at this critical period of COVID-19. The Amber team was at Nigeria Info, Wazobia FM, Cool FM (members of the AIM group), Traffic Radio, City FM to sensitise Nigerians on the empowerment programme. The General Manager, Amber Energy Drinks limited, Ms. Titiola Adedeji said: “With the current economic situation, Amber Drinks found it necessary to alleviate the pain of the average Nigerian, providing Nigerians the opportunity to own and grow their businesses through soft loans and business support initiatives. “We decided to give trade loans in the form of N100,000 worth of products to start-up beneficiaries and watch them grow. Every quarter, we want to empower 400 applicants in the start-up loan programme and 200 applicants in the Business Support loan programme” she continued. With a below-market interest rate of 5% flat, the Start-up Loan offers the beneficiaries N100,000 and a 4-month repayment plan with the first 30 days interest-free. The Business Support features rent-to-own recharge spots which will cater to individuals small-time beverage retailers that need support to grow. Applicants will be given branded recharge spots on payment by installments. Moreso, the company would open an account for beneficiaries and each person will be credited with one-hundred thousand naira only.” This will then be debited automatically with 20 cartons of Amber Energy Drink which would be traded in for repayment by the beneficiaries. Speaking on the modalities and qualifications by applicants for the scheme, Amber Energy Drinks Head of Sales, Mrs. Temitope Adetiba said the company has put in place arrangements to make the exercise seamless for applicants. “The application process is very simple and seamless. Applicants are required to provide two guarantors and provide basic identification means for documentation. They are then taken through some training before the products are given to them.” To join the Amber Drinks Empowerment Programme, interested persons can apply online, log onto www.amberenergydrink.com/empowerment and follow through the prompts or simply text Amber<> your full name<> location<> to 34778 and they will receive an auto-response to follow-through. Successful applicants would be invited for a short training and onboarding session. The training programme for beneficiaries runs every Tuesday through the month of September for at least one hundred participants, according to the Amber team.