Ugo Aliogo Foremost Nigeria-based marketing technology company, Dochase Adx, has unveiled WhatsApp Chatbot, a product that allows businesses interact with customers and gain massive leads and automate sales process. In a statement issued by the company, the chatbot interacts directly with customers who have genuine interest in a business. Leveraging on Dochase ads and the AI powered bot, customers just makes a single click to reach the intended business owner. In his remarks, the Chief Executive Officer, Dochase Adx, Mr. Chibuike Goodnews, expressed confidence that the product would enable businesses connect directly with the right audience who have genuine interest in the businesses by stimulating conversations between the business and the customer, “you don’t have to own a website anymore to interact directly with your customers, make sales or take orders. You just enroll the bot, run adverts and convert advertising response to buying customers. You can also take payment as all the process have been built in.” On his part, the Operations Executive at Dochase Adx, Ajah Chukwu Agwu, hinted that the Chatbot comes as a premium package to clients who opt for the Dochase Click-to-Whatsapp solution. Speaking further, the Backend Developer at Dochase Adx, Nwafor Miracle, explained that the Chatbot is customized uniquely built according to each client’s business needs. Continuing, Miracle said: “In doing this, we use a detailed operational flow of the client’s business which will be provided by the client, as a knowledge base to meet the client’s customers’ dynamic requests. Interested clients are given unique mobile contact number registered on WhatsApp business account; businesses simple start using it.” The statement also stated that the Chatbot utilizes dedicated, customizable, and automated business response, “to interface with customers while a client may be away to meet other business needs.” The statement added that the bot as a service can be deployed on other environments including website, Facebook and apps. According to the statement: “Your business success is not only dependent on acquiring more customers, the satisfaction level of your customers is very key to your success. Research also shows that a satisfied customer may only tell 2-3 people about his/her experiences with your business whereas a dissatisfied customer will badmouth your business to 8-10 people or possibly more, according to the rage. “Consequently, our Chatbot is the power-pack product we bring you to connect your business to the right audience who have genuine interest in your business, bring them to your storefront on mobile and make conversion seamless. “WhatsApp Chatbot uses deep AI to take out the complex sales funnels thereby making conversion by few clicks. Using the business model of client, we are able to use technology to dynamically meet the client’s customer requests effectively. We basically offer businesses the chance to have personal touch with each customer, exist in multiple dimensions because their customers would barely know they are interacting with a Chatbot and not the client in person, that’s how efficient the model can be.”