By Seriki Adinoyi Former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Dr. Obadiah Mailafia, has raised the alarm over his safety, saying “some sinister political forces want me silenced forever. I have received information about a large sum that has been paid to have me eliminated.” This is even as the Department of State Security (DSS) has summoned him again to appear at its headquarters in Jos on Monday. This becomes the third invitation by the DSS, aside the one from the Criminal Investigations Department (CID), which he turned down. In a statement he signed, Mailafia lamented that he was being subjected to criminal investigation and extreme political persecution for speaking truth to power. He said, “On Thursday 10th September I was informed through my lawyer that I am being summoned once again to appear before the Department of State Security (DSS). This would be the third time that I’m being ordered to appear before the DSS at their Jos HQ. As a law-abiding citizen, I shall honour their summons and will present myself at their Jos Command HQ at 11.00a.m. this coming Monday, 14th September. “This is coming in the face of the legal battle I have in court, as my lawyer appears before a Jos High Court today, Friday the 11th, seeking a restraining order against the DIG, Criminal Investigations Department (CID) who is also pursuing me. “I spent most of my working life abroad, about 25 years in all. I served with distinction as a university teacher, banker and international civil servant. I have an unblemished record. I have been a faithful and loyal ambassador for my country wherever destiny has taken me. I have no criminal record anywhere, not even a parking ticket. Sadly, it is in my own fatherland that I’m being subjected to criminal investigation and such extreme political persecution. “Let me put it on record that throughout my interactions with the gentlemen of the DSS, I have found them to be thorough, firm, rigorous and professional. But I have reason to believe that some sinister political forces want me silenced forever. I have received information about a large sum that has been paid to have me eliminated. Alternatively, to have me poisoned and get me incapacitated for life. My life is in danger, all because I have chosen to speak truth to power. And because I have dared to stand up for the Holy Martyrs — for thousands of innocent children, women, elderly and youths that have been killed in our beloved country.” Mailafia further lamented that “it is only in our benighted country that a man who speaks from his conscience can be hounded like a common criminal and vagabond fugitive.” He said, “On Monday at 11.00a.m. I shall go before Pharaoh. I shall tell him to let me go and to stop the killing of innocent children, women and elderly, which is a curse and an abomination upon our glorious land. “In speaking out, I have made powerful enemies who have profiteered from the bloodshed and violence that has brought so many dishonours to our nation. I am a man of peace. I abhor the shedding of innocent blood. “But I dare to take my stand with the defenceless widows and orphans who are being slaughtered in their thousands. If I perish, I perish. I have received extraordinary support from all the country. I have found out Nigerians are a generous and compassionate people. I urge all my many supporters throughout the country to be law-abiding and to totally abjure all forms of violence. Let us rather be candles of light and beacons of hope in our dark and illiberal age.”