Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje at the weekend disclosed that the state was able to defeat COVID-19 with daily prayers and supplications. He said this at the annual Zikir and prayers for national unity organised by the Majalisul Shura Litaraqa Al-Tijjaniyya at the palace of the Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado-Bayero on Friday. Ganduje, who was represented by his deputy, Mallam Yusuf Gawuna, admitted that there “are a lot of issues bedevilling the country, especially the prevailing case of coronavirus.” However, according to him, there is less record of the infections in Kano compared to other states, courtesy of the daily prayers and Zikr offered by the good people of the state. The governor, therefore, called on Muslims “to pray for peace and stability in Kano and the nation in general. It is only through prayers and submitting ourselves to the Almighty Allah that the situation we are in today can be addressed.” He, also, urged the youth “to rise up and acquire Islamic knowledge. Not only acquiring the knowledge, but putting it to practice, what the religion teaches also serves as solutions to some societal problems facing the Muslims.” Ganduje noted that the Zikr, an annual programme, played a vital role in bringing peace and stability, as well as seeking Allah’s intervention in addressing problems facing the state and the nation in general. He described Tijjaniyya sect followers as peace loving people who made sacrifices in acquiring knowledge and promoting teaching of the Prophet and his companions as guided by Sheik Ahmad Tijjani. While acknowledging the contributions made by the leaders of Tijjaniyya movement towards Islamic propagation in Africa and the world at large, Ganduje implored the followers to continue to pray for the state and love each other as Muslim brothers In his speech, Ado-Bayero said annual Zikir and prayers were organised to draw all the Tijjaniyya followers closer and pray for the nation’s unity and stability. The emir said the programme reminded all the followers of the good works of their leaders like Sheikh Usman Danfodio, who spent their lives towards propagating the movement not only in Africa but in the whole world. He encouraged members of the sect to wake up and seek for more knowledge to serve as a ladder that would allow them to know the religion of Islam and the Tijjaniyya doctrine. Earlier, in a welcome address, the acting Chairman of Majalisul Shura Litaraqa Al- Tijjaniyya, Khalifa Sani Maihula had urged the members to follow the steps and good life style of Sheikh Ahmadu Tijjani who devoted his time in propagating the teaching of Islam and love of the Prophet.