By Adedayo Akinwale The Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) has said that the efficient management of the economy has strengthened the capacity of the federal government to control the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The governors elected on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) stated this in a statement issued Tuesday by its Chairman and Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu, as part of the resolution reached at an emergency teleconference held on Sunday. The forum also commended the federal government for successfully getting the United Kingdom Commercial Court to order stay of execution, which also suspends any penalty against Nigeria in respect of the $9.6 billion Process and Industrial Development (P&ID) debt judgement. It also commended President Muhammadu Buhari for setting up the APC, Executive and Legislative Tripartite Consultative Committee under the Chairmanship of the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, describing it as a welcome innovation to enhance the capacity of APC to resolve all political challenges and therefore develop the country’s democracy. It added: “In addition, the Forum also commended President Muhammadu Buhari for efficiently managing Nigeria’s economy, which has led to giant strides in the execution of major national projects that include the revival of railways, the 2nd Niger Bridge, Ajaokuta Steel, road projects across all parts of the country, among many others. “The efficient management of the economy has strengthened the capacity of the federal government to control the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.” The APC governors unanimously reaffirmed their commitment to continue to support President Buhari to expedite delivery of all electoral promises to Nigerians. The forum also applauded Nigeria’s certification by World Health Organisation (WHO) as polio-free country and restated the commitment of all progressive governors to continue to work with federal government for the eradication of all communicable diseases in the country. It equally congratulated the federal government for the reelection of Dr. Akinwumi Adesina as President of the African Development Bank for second term.