Adedayo Adejobi The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate in the governorship election in Kogi State, Mr. Musa Wada, has accepted the decision of the Supreme Court on the election, and congratulated his main rival, the state Governor, Yahaya Bello, on his victory. However, Wada in a statement said the Supreme Court verdict did not take into account the violence and disenfranchisement of citizens whose mandate had by the result of the appeal been silenced, but that being a democrat, he had to accept the verdict as there would always be an end to litigation. He nevertheless lamented that the lot of the Kogi people was worsening by the day as evidenced in arrears of salaries and lack of basic amenities that make life worth living. Wada congratulated Bello, and charged him to quickly address the sufferings of the ordinary man in the street, pointing out that other more focused states were rising up to the challenges of development currently eluding the Kogi State. He attributed the late acceptance and congratulating his opponent to certain indispositions, and pledged to continue doing his bid to help the ordinary Kogi man to have better living standards. Bello challenger said: “Nevertheless, the Supreme Court has spoken, and as a democrat, I heartily congratulate Governor Yahaya Bello, and also to remind him at this crucial point in the state history that this has all been about Kogi people, and I shall continue in my quest to ensure a better life for the people of the state. God bless Kogi State and God bless Nigeria. ‘‘Despite the controversy that heralded his ascension to power, many had hoped that Bello would be the breath of fresh air which the rancid political environment sorely needed. But Bello’s four years was a disaster, as many groaned in pain and gnashed their teeth. As a result of unpaid monthly salaries to civil servants, some workers died in penury, families got destabilised and many children whose parents were civil servants dropped out of school. The situation in Kogi State is still so bad and under siege. Bello’s mis-governance is not hidden even to the blind. “However, as the maxim goes, ‘there is always an end to litigation’, and that holds true for me in my quest to wrench my people of the state from the stranglehold of misrule, maladministration and mis-governance that had characterised the past four years; however, that effort has come to an end in our quest to reclaim a mandate rightly given to us.”