By Peter Uzoho The Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh, has appointed a renowned professional speaker and motivator, Mr. Ubong Essien, as his Special Assistant on Communications and Strategy. Jamoh was quoted in a statement yesterday to have announced the appointment on his verified Twitter handle, saying, “Welcome Aboard. Glad to announce the appointment of Ubong Essien as my Special Assistant on Communications and Strategy”. According to the statement, Essien has already assumed duty at the Apapa, Lagos, headquarters of NIMASA. Described by the legendary Brian Tracy as ‘one of the very best speakers in the world today,’ Essien is currently the only Certified Speaking Professional (CSP) in West and Central Africa. He is a renowned motivator, Publisher of The Achievers Journal and also the Dean of the School of Eloquence, the public speaking training centre with offices in Lagos and London. Essien has been involved in human capacity building since 1999 and has worked as a speaker, trainer, facilitator and consultant to a variety of Nigerian organizations in both private and public sectors, including Total Nigeria, DHL, and Lafarge Africa. Others were: Multichoice Nigeria, Guinness Nigeria, AIICO Insurance, Fidelity Bank, Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria, Nigeria LNG, May and Baker Nigeria, First Registrars, Vitafoam, NIMASA, NPA, Nigerian Shippers Council, Learn Africa, and Nigerian Tribune. Essien has also worked for the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA), Voice of Nigeria (VON), Lagos, Edo and Imo state governments, John Holt Engineering, UAC, UAC Property Development Company, HP Nigeria, MDS, and CAP Plc. Dubbed Nigeria’s Mister Motivator for pioneering motivational talks on television since 2002 and winning of the prestigious SuccessDigest Award for Young Entrepreneur of the same year, Essien specializes in motivating people towards personal and professional excellence and training in public speaking skills. He is a member of the National Speakers Association (NSA), USA; the American Association for Talent Development (ATD) and the Chartered Institute of Transport Administrators (CIoTA), Nigeria. Essien who holds a B.Ed. (Biology) from University of Ilorin and a Postgraduate Diploma in Mass Communication from University of Lagos, is a member of the Governing Board of the Centre for Values in Leadership (CVL). He has authored a number of books, including Speak with Power; The Challenge to Perform; Dare to Dream and Succeed; and The Gateway to Riches.