Onuminya Innocent in Sokoto The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan yesterday condoled with Senator Aliyu Wamakko, on the death of his 23-year old daughter, Sadiya. At different fora yesterday, they expressed shock at Sadiya’s sudden passage, describing it as sad and tragic. During a visit to Wamakko yesterday, Tinubu said: “We are here to thank God for you. In everything, He has taught us to be grateful and faithful. “Whatever He allows to happen to us, we should thank Him. Bereavement is not easy, particularly of a daughter, but that is the way God wants it. “If we lament more than this we will be sinning, hence, we must accept it as an inevitable act of God. “God knows what to do and we should accept it faithfully. We have been asked to faithfully accept all what He ordains, in time of sorrow and happiness.” Tinubu prayed that Wamakko and his family members would live long and in happiness. He also prayed for the repose of the soul of the deceased. In response, Wamakko commended the APC National Leader for the invaluable gesture. Wamakko, a former governor of Sokoto State, also prayed that God would crown Tinubu’s efforts with success, and divinely provide for him.
He commended Tinubu for the show of brotherhood, support and concern. Special prayer session for the repose of the soul of the late Sadiya was led by Sheikh Bashir Gidan Kanawa. Those on the entourage of Tinubu include Senators Adamu Aliero and Tanko Al-Makura, former National Chairman of the defunct ANPP and one of the APC Founding Fathers, Alhaji Yusuf Ali, former EFCC National Chairman, Alhaji Nuhu Ribadu and Alhaji Ibrahim Masari, an APC Chieftain. In a statement by his Special Adviser, Media, Mr. Ola Awoniyi, the Senate President described the tragic death of Sadiya at a tender age as painful, but urged Wamakko to take solace in the fact that Allah gives and takes as He wills. He said: “I share in your grief and pray that Allah will give you the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. “I also commiserate with the government and people of Sokoto state who are mourning with you over the unfortunate incident and pray that Allah will console them,” Lawan said.