By Deji Elumoye The President of the Senate, Dr Ahmad Lawan, has given an assurance that the National Assembly will facilitate the allocation of sufficient resources by the Executive arm for youth development across the country. Lawan, in a virtual address on Thursday while declaring open the training of 1,000 youths in GSM phone repair, hardware, software and entrepreneurship development in four centres in Yobe State, said the parliament would prioritize the allocation of resources for youth development notwithstanding the current economic challenges facing the country owing to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Senate President while underscoring the importance of synergy in governance, assured the youths that the National Assembly will ensure the allocation of resources specifically for the purpose of youth development across the country. According to him, the gesture of parliamentary support in this direction would be backed by further efforts to engage Nigerian youths on ways of additionally stimulating their creativity and productivity levels, so as to keep them away from getting involved in crime. Lawan added that youth development initiatives serve as one of the ways of empowering and uplifting the wellbeing of the country’s youth population. “It is most pleasing to flag off this important training for youths in Yobe State. The training of 1,000 youths in GSM phone repairs, hardware, software and entrepreneurship development is a landmark in our commitment to uplifting the wellbeing of a key part of the nation’s population. “It is additionally a reminder of the multiple avenues for empowering youths across Nigeria. We cannot overstate the fact that youths are a crucial category in the nation’s population. They are full of energy and are hopeful for the future. “The future may however not make any meaning to them if their present is not productive. It is why we will strive to surmount the challenges of limited resources to fend for this population group. This also requires creativity on how to engage them. “With a greater level of engagement for the youth, they can contribute to the economy, still in need of better productivity. Productivity is a prelude to growth, which will also lead to improved wellbeing. “I am happy that earlier remarks have harped on paying attention to the welfare of the youth. Making them a priority takes them away from crime, which is often a result of idleness. “The need to pay attention to the youth has led to this initiative, as supported by the Nigerian Content Development, and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), and the National Information Technology Agency (NITDA). “The support once more highlights the relevance of synergy in governance. It is the reason the Senate has been consistent in providing legislative impetus for collaboration amongst government agencies, consistent with the mission to deliver on our mandate. We will continue on this path, for the good of Nigerians,” the Senate President said.