By Rebecca Ejifoma The Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development in partnership with the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA) and the International Labour Organisation has begun a nation-wide campaign to understand the aspirations of young Nigerians on decent works. The campaign, which is being managed by the Nigeria Youth SDGs Network, a coalition of youth-led civil society organisations, aims to help develop a roadmap towards designing effective policy and programmes that will ensure that young Nigerians are adequately prepared to get and create jobs. As disclosed in a press release issued at the weekend, the campaign is part of the implementation of the Nigerian Youth Employment Action Plan (NIYEAP), a four-year detailed plan to address the youth employment challenge in Nigeria in a comprehensive and coordinated manner. The statement noted that the NIYEAP had been developed to complement and operate in the context of existing policies, frameworks, and strategies such as the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan; the National Youth Policy, the National Employment Policy, the United Nations Development Partnership Framework and the Call for Action. The ministry, however, began activities for the review of the NIYEAP 4-year-plan in the year 2018, in collaboration with the United Nations which also launched the Global Initiative on Decent Jobs for Youth, a multi-stakeholder partnership to advance the implementation of youth employment-related targets of the 2030 Agenda in the year 2016. It read in part, “The Nigerian Youth Employment Action Plan (NIYEAP) serves as a commitment of the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria under the Global Initiative on Decent Jobs for Youth.” With a focus on employment creation, employability, equality and rights as well as entrepreneurship, the priority themes of NIYEAP the 4Es are further delineated into strategic lines of action listed under each theme with emphasis on sectors that have high job creation potential. The sectors are, Digital Economy, Rural Economy, Green Economy and Renewable energy sector, Manufacturing, Tourism, Construction and Service. The organisers hinted that the action plan was a fundamental framework to address youth employment, which emphasised on finding solutions with and for young people who are seeking decent and productive jobs. The nationwide campaign began on July 21 this year with a survey which can be accessed through virtual platforms. Through the survey, the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA), and the International Labour Organisation are gathering the views of the Nigerian youth on employment prospects and needs of youth that will inform policy direction and ensure the right approaches are pursued to implement the NIYEAP. Currently, the statement has it that the survey has been filled by over one hundred and fifty thousand young Nigerians from the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria.