By Segun Awofadeji The federal government has partnered with the Bauchi State Government to construct four thousand housing units in the state to ease the housing deficit. The Managing Director, Family Homes Fund, Mr Femi Adewole revealed this plan at a meeting between the state government, Family Homes Fund and organized labour held at the Mini Chamber, Government House Bauchi yesterday. Speaking with journalists after the meeting, Adewole said the new housing project would be constructed under the federal government’s social housing programme as part of the government’s plan to provide people of low incomes with affordable accommodations. He said the social housing programme “is an initiative of the federal government worth N200 billion designed to construct three hundred thousand housing units in the selected states of the federation to be funded by the Central Bank of Nigeria through the Federal Ministry of Finance.” On the completion of the housing project, the managing director explained that beneficiaries would be assisted to access mortgage for repayment period of about 25 years. He said: “It is my pleasure to be in Bauchi again to introduce the social housing programme and to outline the roles of organised labour in ensuring that residents of Bauchi State, especially those who are on low income, have access to the programme. “The programme is an opportunity for Nigerians to access affordable houses, create job opportunities for people on low income, revive industries through using their materials for the construction of the project and improve the general well-being of vulnerable groups.” He noted that the family homes fund was established by the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari as a social financing institution to mobilise financing specifically for homes at affordable rates. He said: “I am happy to report that we are satisfied and delighted with progress of the ongoing construction of 2,500 housing schemes in Bauchi which is not only to provide affordable homes for the people of Bauchi, but most significantly create job opportunities for many local people. We want to appreciate the governor for working with us.” Adewole said in addition to the ongoing two thousand and five hundred housing scheme and the new one, which will soon be commenced, the fund would continue to invest in the state throughout the tenure of the present administration. After the meeting, the Commissioner for Housing and Environment, Mr. Hamisu Muazu Shira assured the partners of the commitment of the state government towards the immediate commencement of the new project in the state. He said: “We considered family homes as good partners with the Bauchi state government and today we are here to discuss yet another opportunity that Bauchi State will leverage on to ensure that, lower income earners, respected civil servants and people of the state benefited from this golden opportunity.” The state NLC Chairman, Mr Danjuma Saleh who spoke on behalf of the organized labour, applauded the state government for partnering with the federal government to provide houses for the people.