Segun James The immediate past Managing Director of Polaris Bank Limited, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, has emerged as the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for the October 31 by-election into Lagos East Senatorial District seat. Abiru, a former Lagos State Commissioner for Finance, was elected unopposed as the sole candidate. His candidacy was affirmed by 111,551 party members who were delegates during the APC direct primary elections conducted in all the 72 wards across the senatorial district. The five local government areas in Lagos East Senatorial election where the primary elections took place were Kosofe, Ikorodu, Somolu, Ibeju-Lekki and Epe. Declaring Abiru winner of the Lagos East Senatorial primary at Somolu Local Government Area, the Returning Officer and chairman of the APC Primary Election for Lagos State by-elections, Hon. Ibrahim Masari, said Abiru won through affirmation as the sole aspirant for the party’s primary through direct primary system. APC also declared Saheed Obafemi as its candidate for the forthcoming Kosofe Constituency II by-election into Lagos State House of Assembly. Masari while announcing Obafemi’s candidacy after the primaries at Kosofe Local Government Secretariat, Lagos on Thursday, said Obafemi, being the only APC aspirant polled 34,012 votes from six wards to emerge as the party’s candidate for the Kosofe II State Constituency by-election. Abiru in his response appreciated the executives and members of the party, especially members of his ward as well as his family and promised to deliver all his promises to Lagos East Senatorial district if given the mandate. The APC candidate, who promised to work within the tenets of the party ideals, also urged APC members to join hands and come out in their thousands to vote during the upcoming Senatorial by-election to ensure APC’s victory in the October 31 polls. Commenting on the outcome of the primary, Lagos APC Publicity Secretary, Hon. Seye Oladejo, said “With the emergence of our candidates, all is now set for APC to contest and retain the respective legislative seats.” It would be recalled that the Lagos East Senatorial district and Kosofe II State Constituency seats became vacant following deaths of Senator Bayo Oshinowo and Hon. Tunde Buraimoh, who died of COVID-19 complications in June and July respectively.