The Managing Director of Curves and Curvature Limited, Mr. Oluwole Oloruntobi, updates Fadekemi Ajakaiye on the company’s role in providing affordable housing solutions for Nigerians at home and in the Diaspora Tell us about your company My name is Oluwole Oloruntobi. I’m the Managing Director of curves and curvatures limited, also known as C&C Homes. We’re into real estate investment and property development. Our core value is to ensure that Nigerians at home and in Diaspora have access to quality homes at a very affordable price. This is very important to us- quality and affordable homes in Nigeria. That is what we do, and that is who I am. Why did you choose real estate? Yes, it is based on my interest as a person. Real estate is something I have always looked forward to, right from my University days. I believe it is one of the key things that influences ones impact in life. Food, clothing, and shelter are the three basic needs of every individual in the world. Real estate covers the need for shelter, which is important to everybody. It was born out of interest. How long have you been doing this now? Personally, I have been in the real estate industry for almost a decade. I had experiences with other organisations before coming up with Curves and Curvatures Limited, and I have practiced all over Nigeria, including Port Harcourt, Abuja, Ondo, Lagos State, and others. What aspect of real estate do you specialise in? We are majorly into property development. We acquire virgin lands, we develop them, and we sell to Nigerians at home and in diaspora. Our clients are those in Nigeria and Nigerians all over the world. What projects do you offer in real estate? We have the Hill City Park- which has two projects within it. Hill City Park is the mother estate. Within it, we have Project 64 24, which is already delivered, with people living there. We also have the bricks planet project which is almost to 80% complete. The Hill City Park is by the New Auditorium, off Lagos –Ibadan Expressway. We also have Kingston Park, located at the Ibafo New town Extension, off Lagos Ibadan ExpressWay as well. It is a 15 minutes’ drive to Alausa, Ikeja. These are some of the new projects that we are currently building. They have different prototypes ranging from bungalows to terrace duplexes and detached duplexes. Another project is the Vibrant home which is located in Lekki. We are building a luxury three-bedroom bungalow with a penthouse and servant house. It is also an on-going project. We also have properties in Abuja by the TY Danjuma Academy, which is located in Gwagwalada Abuja. Other projects include the Palms Spring Estate, which is located in Lekki, beside Beechwood estate and in Akure, Ondo State. Tell us more about Hill City Park? Hill City Park estate is a good real estate opportunity in the industry. It is an eco-friendly estate, as all the buildings are built with eco-bricks. The estate has 24 hours security, good road network, electricity, and a good drainage system. It is an on-going project that we are committed to deliver on, just like others. You use Eco-friendly bricks, is it only for Hill City Park? It is currently only for Hill City Park Estate. We are still evolving into innovation and creativity. The technology behind the eco-bricks is outstanding, and one of the best in Nigeria today. We use Eco-bricks to build in Hill City Park and, it has been a success all through, as a lot of people keep appreciating our works. Why eco-friendly bricks? The eco-bricks have a lot of advantages. First, it is 100% stronger than the regular cement bricks. Secondly, it is weather friendly. Being weather-friendly, I mean when it is hot outside, it is cool inside; and when it is cold outside (probably during the harmattan season), it is warm inside eco-bricks. So it is a fantastic one. We produce it ourselves on the site location, to ensure the quality is top-notch. What is your Payment plan for Hill City Park Estate? We have a payment plan ranging from 6 months to a maximum of 36 months without interest. So, our clients can pay in installments. As I said, our vision is to ensure that Nigerians have affordable and quality homes. Yes, we are making a profit, but it is not all about profit-making. What we are doing is born out of passion, to contribute our quota to the housing deficit in Nigeria. What structure do you have in Curves and Curvature in terms of company culture and marketing strategy? First, we are a household name, and secondly, we get most of our clients through referrals. When clients are satisfied, they naturally tell people about it. Referrals have been our major selling point. Although one cannot completely satisfy everybody, I can say that at least 85% of our clients are satisfied and bring a lot of their friends and relatives from all over the world, not just in Nigeria. As I said earlier, we have several Nigerians in Diaspora who are our clients today. You have been in the real estate industry for up to a decade now. What advice will you give entrepreneurs who intend to go into the real estate industry? A lot of people only see real estate as a money-spinner but in reality, that is not always the case. For those who want to go into the real estate industry, I think they should develop the passion, and have a good vision that is beyond the money. Once you get it right as an entrepreneur (which is often not as easy as it seems), the sky is just the beginning, not just the limit. However, making money should not be the motivating factor. The passion has to come first because challenges would arise, and when there is no passion, those challenges can make you give up. But when you’re passionate, even when the challenges come, you will think of solutions and forge ahead.