By Udora Orizu The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has said it is mobilising its members, activists, civil social organizations, opposition lawmakers and others to reach a nationwide consensus for civil mass action over the hike in the pump price of petrol and electricity tariff. CUPP in a statement issued on Thursday by its spokesperson Ikenga Ugochinyere rejected the hike, describing it as senseless, insensitive and wicked in its entirety. It called on the federal government to rescind the decision with immediate effect or face legal action and mass protest. CUPP said, ”This is to inform the Nigerian Public/Citizens that the Human Mobilisation Unit of the Opposition Coalition (CUPP) in furtherance of its Patriotic objective of serving as a great defender of Nigeria Peoples interest and led by Barr. Kenneth Udeze the CUPP Head of Human Mobilisation unit/ Action Alliance National Chairman have activated the units Public mobilisation mandate in view of the recent two most painful anti people’s actions of the APC Federal Government, the increment in electricity Tariff and Pump Price of Fuel.” ”The unit’s activities which have been activated include contacting and reaching out to Key National Labour, Civil Society, Political, ethnic, Religious and organised groups starting with Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), and all other professional bodies, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Ohaneze, Arewa, Afenifere, middle belt groups, Femi Falana, Prof. Wole Soyinka, DR. Joe Odumakin, SERAP, Deji Adeyanju, Timi Frank, Dino Melaye, opposition lawmakers, governors, traders, and so on.” ”This Patriotic efforts is geared towards convincing these organisations on the need for a National Civil Action to protest and resist the increasing Anti People’s Polices especially the painful increase in fuel pump price and electricity tariff coupled with the growing corruption and insecurity that have taken over Nigeria. If the consultations yield a positive result, the CUPP Human Mobilisation Unit will be announcing a date for Civil action in collaboration with these organised groups.”