By Deji Elumoye A former member of the National Assembly, Senator Kabiru Marafa, has accused the former Governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, of frustrating current moves by the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Caretaker Committee led by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni, to reconcile aggrieved members of the party in the state.
Yari had on Tuesday told newsmen at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja after meeting with the Buni-led Caretaker Committee that APC in Zamfara state is intact and there was no cause for alarm.
Reacting to Yari’s position, the former Chairman of Senate committee on Petroleum (Downstream), warned the caretaker committee to be wary of the advice given by the former governor.
On whether Buni should go to sleep or redouble his effort in reconciling the various groups in Zamfara state, Marafa said the decision is for the committee to take and reconcile all the groups.
His words: ”There are a few good people in the committee that means well for the party and I advise them to wake up and do what they are asked to do and leave the politics of 2023.
”Well, I am equally not bothered by whether someone wants to reconcile with me or not, politically speaking, am comfortable and at peace with myself. I am still in the APC because I choose to, not because of fear of prosecution. I am part and parcel of the efforts that produced APC. The party did nothing to me, I did everything to it. All the political troubles I faced are traceable to my support for APC. Remember the Eighth National Assembly leadership crisis? Remember how Yari scuttled the APC plan?”
The former lawmaker also washed his hands off the report that he nominated the current Secretary to Zamfara state government and a Commissioner to serve in the state saying the two appointees belong to different party from his own.
According to him, ”The duo contested the 2019 general elections on the platform of the PDP not the APC, so what is Yari talking about? So, they shouldn’t have been appointed because they are my friends? As at today, 10 local Government Chairmen that are certified Yari boys, anointed and put into office by Yari before he left office including the former Deputy Governor, the present Commissioner of Home Security who was a former Vice Chairman under Yari are all serving under Governor Matawalle, so what is he talking about? Let him swear by Allah that he didn’t plant them there ahead of 2023 to reduce the electoral burden?”
He also accused Yari of forging a statement credited to Buni-led panel allegedly expelling members of his group from the APC and called on the party’s national leadership to investigate the forgery.
”You see, this too underscores Yari’s desperation to control the APC in Zamfara state as his boys forged the documents to show that Governor Buni’s committee is with them, if you are popular why do you need to do that to deal with your opponent?
“Anyway, it’s a welcome development and a step in the right direction, but it’s not enough to say the documents are forged and stop there, the party must go the extra mile to fish out the culprits and punish them to serve as deterrent to others that may want to copy their bad example in other states!”, Yari said.