By Kingsley Nwezeh Overseer of Abuja-based Divine Hand of God Church, Prophet Emmanuel Omale, has dragged the First City Monument Bank (FCMB) before a Federal Capital Territory High Court seeking N5billion.
Suspended Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commision (EFCC), Mr Ibrahim Magu, was alleged to have traveled with the pastor to Dubai for the purpose of purchasing a property in the name of the pastor. He has since denied the allegation.
The pastor was also alleged to have received N500 million in his FCMB account for the purpose. The bank later stated that the amount was posted into his account in error.
But in a suit filed at the FCT High Court by his Counsel, Chief Goddy Uche, Omale is seeking a “declaration of this honourable court that the defendant in its banker-customer relationship with the 1st” claimant owes the claimants a fiduciary duty of care.
“A declaration of this honourable court that the defendant negligently breached the fiduciary duty of care it owes the claimants by its false automated report to the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) of a suspicious credit inflow of N573, 228, 040. 41 (Five Hundred and Seventy-Three Million Nalra, Two Hundred and Twenty-Elght Thousand, Forty Nair: and 41 kobo) into the 1st claimant’s corporate current account number 4867430l9 with the defendant”.
Omale is also seeking “the sum of N5, 000, 000, 000. on (Five Billion Natra) being exemplary, aggravated, special and general damages against the defendant for the negligent breach of its fiduciary duty of care to the claimants by its false automated report to the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) of a suspicious credit inflow of N573, 228, 040. 41 (Five Hundred and SeventyThree Million Naira, Two Hundred and Twenty-Eight Thousand, Forty Naira and 41 kobo) into the 1st claimant’s corporate current account numben486743019 with the defendant, which has occasioned grave damages to the claimants”.
In the writ of summons dated September 4, 2020, FCMB is expected to enter appearance within 30 days.