Chiemelie Ezeobi Ben Llewellyn-Jones OBE has been appointed the new British Deputy High Commissioner (DHC) in Lagos, Nigeria. According to the Press and Public Affairs Officer, British Deputy High Commission, Lagos, Ndidiamaka Eze, the new DHC is an experienced diplomat who has worked in different parts of the world including previously in Nigeria. She said: “He takes over from Ms. Harriet Thompson who recently concluded four years as DHC in Abuja and Lagos. Ben will be focusing his time and energy on supporting trade, investment and development in Nigeria and growing commercial links between the UK and Nigeria. “He previously worked at the British High Commission in Abuja in the role of Political Counsellor from July 2014 to July 2017. “He was most recently Deputy High Commissioner
to South Africa from August 2017 to August 2020, where he worked in particular to support trade and investment. Prior to that he was the British High Commissioner to Rwanda from 2011 – 2014. ”Throughout his career Ben Llewellyn-Jones has held a range of responsibilities including leading UK policy to prevent dangerous climate change, and work to support UK agencies tackling organised crime. “He served as the Deputy Head of the Climate Change and Energy Group at the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office in 2009 to 2010, and the Head of the Third Country Relations Team at the UK Home Office in 2006. “He worked in Brussels at the UK’s Permanent Representation to the EU for four and a half years, and has led the UK delegation at a number of EU and UN senior multilateral meetings. “He was awarded the Order of the British Empire (OBE) by HM the Queen in 2009 for his service to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (now Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office). ”Ben is married to Laura and together they have two young children. He enjoys sport, in particular rugby, football and boxing, and spending time with his family. “He and his family are looking forward to their second stay in Nigeria, and getting to know and enjoy Lagos.” To mark his arrival Ben Llewellyn-Jones said: “It’s great to be back in Nigeria and I‘m very excited about this new role. I thoroughly enjoyed my three years in Abuja, and I know that Lagos will be a fantastic place to live and work. “I am looking forward to reconnecting with old friends, making new ones and doing all I can to support trade, investment and development in Nigeria. For clearer understanding, The British Deputy High Commission in Lagos maintains and develops relations between the UK and Nigeria. According to Eze, they monitor the political situation in Nigeria and seek to strengthen the bilateral relationship. She added: “The High Commission is one of the overseas missions of the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO). We promote the interests of British citizens, safeguard the UK’s security, defend our values, reduce
poverty and tackle global challenges with our international partners. ”The recently launched Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), a merger of the FCO and DFID government departments, unites development and diplomacy in one new department. This merger brings together
the best of Britain’s international effort, and will demonstrate the UK acting as a force for good in the world. ”The UK is a world leader in international development, helping to end extreme poverty in developing countries by tackling challenges like coronavirus, saving lives in humanitarian crises and helping girls get a quality education. ”The new Department will use all the tools of British influence to seize the opportunities ahead, ensuring that we will have even greater impact on the world stage as we recover from COVID-19 and prepare to hold the G7 presidency and host COP26 next year.