Quite often, the penchant by some Nigerians to rush to run their country down always seems to becloud their sense of reasoning. Although, sadly, such a mindset is also often informed by their disdain or resentment for the leadership of the day, not necessarily because they detest their own country, the mix up is however a staggering disappointment. Whoever instigated the debate on Nigeria’s 60th anniversary logo as being plagiarised, clearly did so from a place of hate and not necessarily an effort to save the country from any embarrassment otherwise the individual would have done a thorough check and ascertain what really was amiss, if any at all. First, there’s a tendency to mistake plagiarism for copyright and vice versa. They are not the same. This mindset, however, does not accord open-source images their place in the debate. But the truth is, there are no rights over open-source images. While some are free online, some are paid for. Thus, when an image is used in a design from that standpoint, it no longer fits the category of a plagiarised work. Therefore, critics must understand that the diamond image in the 60th anniversary design is not the logo, but one of the many parts of the whole herein referred to as the logo.
It is worthy of mention that a combination of patriotic communications outfits – Chain Reactions Nigeria, The Temple Management and TBWA Africa – had put a lot of work into the design that some desperately try to put down. Needless to say the team had envisaged the nature of Nigeria’s diversity, when it themed the Diamond Anniversary, TOGETHER, indicating all about how the Nigerian people had stayed together despite their diversity and differences. It’s okay to contend that the diamond looks similar to the one found on the internet, but to disingenuously alleged that Nigeria plagiarised her 60th Anniversary logo, is beyond the convenience of the narrative. Rather, a disservice to the country. Just like the professionals had argued, there are thousands of diamonds with crystals that look alike, only with a quick search. But the 60th anniversary logo, designed pro-bono out of sheer zeal and patriotism for the country by a consortium of Nigerian marketing communications and talent management companies, shouldn’t have been put down this maliciously. The controversy, therefore, remains a great disservice to the Nigerian professionals, who had invested their time and resources into giving the country a beautiful identity in commemoration of her 60th anniversary. To that extent, this debate is better off in the trash can, because the logo is Nigeria’s and the celebration, hers. Nothing should be greater than the country, even in the face of adversities.