By James Sowole Ondo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Mr. Eyitayo Jegede (SAN), Tuessday assured residents of border communities in Akokoland of adequate protection against kidnappers, if elected governor. The candidate, who was on a campaign visit to Ikakumo, in Akoko North-East Local Government area, gave the assurance amidst wailings by residents who demanded government protection from kidnappers and other criminals. Jegede, who lamented the ordeals of the people in the hands of kidnappers and other criminals, said the scenario would become a thing of the past, once PDP is given the mandate to govern Ondo State. “We are highly concerned about your welfare and are worried over the onslaught of kidnappers and other criminals in Akoko border communities. “I want to assure you of effective security arrangement that will stamp out the incidence of kidnapping, disruptive invasions and other criminal activities, in these areas,” Jegede said. The PDP candidate also assured farmers in the area that farm input and grants-in-aid would be provided for them, and that government would establish agro-allied industries to provide sustainable markets for their farm produce. Besides, Jegede reiterated his determination to “crash the current high tuition and school fees imposed on parents by the current administration.” “I know how many of you toil day and night to fend for your children; and adding to the burden through exorbitant school fees is wicked,” he stressed. Earlier, a PDP leader in Ikakumo, Mr. Tunde Obaide, had disclosed that the communities which share borders with Kogi and Edo States, were prepared to keep vigil against the infiltration of the state by would-be election riggers, from other states. “Ikakumo is a gateway town.We have anointed all the border points in unison and God will help us to ward off whoever intends to subvert the people’s will, come October 10,” Obaide said. Ward 2 PDP chairman in the area, Mr. Johnson Bayode, also said communities comprising Ikakumo, Akunu, Iboropa, Ise and Auga, had adopted Jegede and were prepared to vote for the PDP. Welcoming Jegede to her palace, the Regent of Ikakumo, Princess Olayinka Orogun, said the candidate was well known to her, describing him as humble, hardworking and humane.