Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed yesterday pleaded with the Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) to consider increasing allocation to Bauchi State due to its current population increase and capacity. The governor made this request when RMAFC’s officials paid him an advocacy visit at the Government House, Bauchi, promising to work with the commission to enhance the integrity of the state’s database. Specifically, the governor observed that good data and statistics were key in ensuring execution of meaningful development to the citizens. He expressed confidence that with their visit and having been briefed on the current population increase in the state, the commission would act promptly to ensure an increment in the state’s revenue allocation. He said: “We are highly delighted to receive a high powered delegation from the commission. I am happy that in my previous discussion with the commission, so much had been done to bring equity and justice to all the federal entities including the FCT.
“Our population has increased, but our allocation is yet to be increased for us to provide the required social amenities to the citizens of the state, we must request for constitutional amendment to ensure equity and justice in the revenue allocation.” He noted with satisfaction, the foresight of President Muhammadu Buhari in supporting the commission to embark on the initiative of collecting data that would assist various states to provide the required services to the citizenry. He commended the commission for working towards enhancing the integrity of the database that would be used for the allocation and disbursement of revenue. “Our problem in this country is lack of data, you cannot have any meaningful development without good data and statistics. I see this advocacy as the beginning of new Nigeria”, the governor said. He assured the commission of his state’s total commitment to work with the commission to achieve the set objectives beneficial to both the state and the federal government. Earlier, leader of the delegation and Chairman, Indices and Disbursement Committee of the Committee, Dr Chris Akomas had said officials of the commission were in the state for an advocacy visit and sensitization campaign on new policies introduced by the commission that required involvement of stakeholders. He said the commission had deployed technology to enhance the integrity and credibility of database systems and to ensure transparency and accountability in revenue mobilization and allocation. “Your Excellency, our visit to you today is part of our sensitisation campaign and advocacy to seek for continued support with your administration on the advancement and strengthening of IGR. “In 2018, similar exercise was conducted without achieving the desired results. We therefore look forward to your support to work together to ensure the success of this exercise”. Authorities Not Giving Southern Kaduna Needed Attention Some Nigerians who participated in an online voting on how to stop the killings on Southern Kaduna have said that the government is not given the situation in Southern Kaduna the attention it deserves. A human rights defender, Dr Chidi Odinkalu has posted the question on his twitter handle (@ChidiOdinkalu); Do u think #SouthernKadunaMassacre will be contained if @NigerianGov & @PoliceNG were to decide to send there 1 DIG, 1 AIG & 8 Commissioners of Police, like they have sent to capture #EdoDecides2020? Already 667 have voted. Among them, 73 percent of the voters agreed with the statement that if the authorities decided to give adequate attention to the killings in Southern Kaduna the atrocities will stop. 16 per cent said no while 11 percent said it was inconclusive.