Two hundred staff of the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA) have benefited from the free medical eye screening exercise organised by the General Manager of the agency, Dr. Dolapo Fasawe. The exercise which was in conjunction with a non-governmental organisation, Kingstripes Care Foundation, was aimed at preserving the officials’ visual acuity and effective service delivery. The two-day event, which took place on Friday and Monday at the conference room of the agency and themed: ‘Enabling Clearer Vision for a Cleaner Environment,” according to the initiator was to ensure effective performances, boost agency morale and raise awareness for environmental sustainability. “Good health is a universally understood language, that cuts across individuality or educational level. The eyes are the windows by which we see and appreciate nature and the environment, therefore any delay in seeking medical intervention or unattended visual ailment, could lead to total blindness, hence the need to educate the staff on eye care. “As a seasoned public health professional, I observed through my encounter with the staff, that as a result of failing vision, they often produced suboptimal results, which informed my major inspiration for the Free Eye care programme to further engage and inspire them for better performance for the betterment of the environment,” Fasawe said. According to her, the physical, social and mental health of the staff is a key welfare point and since the environment plays vital roles in determining the good health and wellbeing of the people, the importance and mutual inclusiveness of these respective factors must complement for a positive outcome. She disclosed further that over 200 staff benefitted from free eye checks, consultations, distribution of reading glasses and medicals at no cost, adding that the success of the inaugural edition has encouraged her to make it an annual event. The beneficiaries commended the initiative and expressed their gratitude to the General Manager for embarking on such people-oriented programme. They pledged not to relent on their oars in the discharge of their duties as the move would go a long way in enhancing service delivery.