A South Africa-based financial institution, DafriBank Plc and Umeh Foundation have given palliatives worth millions of naira to Ezinifite Community, Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State to cushion the effect of COVID-19 pandemic The foundation and the bank doled out N100 million to train the less-privileged children in school in the community for 10 years of which N10 million would be spent each year. According to a statement, some of the palliatives shared to the members of the community, especially the aged and widows included 250 bags of 50kg rice, 800 cartons of tomatoes, 800 cartons of groundnut oil and 3,000 pieces of face masks. In addition to those items, members of the community received N3, 000 among others. Addressing the beneficiaries, a senior staff of DafriBank Plc, Onos Oma, said the institution and Umeh Foundation were in the community to alleviate the sufferings of the people that had been affected by the pandemic. She said: “So, we want to give out 16 metric tonnes of food supplies: 250 bags of rice, cartons of tomatoes and others to the people. “The Founder and Chairman of DafriBank in South Africa is a son of the soil. He hails from here, Ezinifite community, Aguata LGA of Anambra State. “We have made impact in over 23 countries. We have done this in South Africa and we are here also to give back to the community.” An excited President-General of the community, Ikem Okwonna, led the sharing of the items among the three quarters in Ezinifite – namely, Aku, Amaekwulu and Ifite. He said it was the first time the community was witnessing such a thing, calling on other wealthy sons of Anambra State to emulate such gesture from their son. He said the education support fund would lift many children, who, according to him, had dropped out of school as a result of lack of financial resources. Popular actress, Mrs. Patience Ozokwo commended DafriBank and Umeh Foundation over the initiative. She told the people of the community to make use of the opportunity to send the less-privileged children to school, which, according to her, would be an added advantage to them in future.