There is a kind of friendship that tarries long and hard, that is neither frazzled in the heat of differing opinions nor stiffened as a result of long distance. This is the kind of friendship deserving of praise and imitation, and the very one that exists between First Lady Aisha Buhari and ‘Second Lady’ Dolapo Osinbajo. Given the choice of a best friend, most men and women at the apex of power would prefer those they’ve grown up with and know inside and out. It is very rare to find someone who qualifies at that height—someone whose personal agendas are not incongruent, but running in the same direction as desired. That is the narrative for both Dr. Aisha Buhari and Barrister Dolapo Osinbajo. They found themselves in identical political positions, became kindred spirits, and now share a friendship much deeper than the name of First or Second Lady. It might have started with their husbands jointly manning the Titanic Ship that is Nigeria, but that cannot explain why Aisha and Dolapo are very fond of each other. Pictures abound on the internet that are proofs of the heartfelt and flourishing rapport between Lady Buhari and Lady Osinbajo. There are pictures of one whispering into the ears of the other, of the second helping to adjust the head-tie of the first, of both of them apparently giggling at some private joke, and more and more. These pictures warm the hearts of those who see them, and even cool—if slightly—the rising tempers of folks who have made a habit of repudiating every plan and policy of President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Most admirably, Ladies Aisha and Dolapo are the very symbols of unity and harmony. Aisha Buhari is a beauty therapist and author, a Muslim, and a native of Northern Nigeria. Dolapo Osinbajo, on the other hand, is a lawyer and natural social champion, a Christian, and the granddaughter of Chief Obafemi Awolowo. They can’t be any different. However, both Aisha and Dolapo relate on the basis of how they are alike—women in power, staunch advocates of women and children rights, and paladins of a united and prosperous Nigeria—rather than how they are unalike. In more ways than one, the friendship of First Lady Aisha Buhari and Second Lady Dolapo Osinbajo is phenomenal, and something that others will do well to emulate.