Sunday Okobi The Concerned Professionals’ Congress (CPC), has urged Nigerians to give more support to the Nigerian military in the light of the successes recorded in the ongoing aggressive onslaughts against bandits in the North-west region of the country “where farmers are reportedly returning to their farms in droves.” The CPC, in a joint statement made available to THISDAY yesterday by its Chief Media Strategist, Mr. Emeka Nwankpa and the Northern Regional Rapporteur, Mr. Kasim Baba Kasim, described as refreshing and encouraging the recent reports of large-scale degrading and neutralisation of bandits, cattle rustlers and illegal armed miners in Katsina State and its environs, saying military activities have curbed insecurity in the region. According to the group, the acting Director of Defence Media Operation, Brigadier General Bernard Onyeuko, told journalists in Katsina that 148 bandits and 315 illegal armed miners were arrested just as 3,984 cows, 1,627 sheep/rams and three camels were recovered. The CPC quoted Onyeuko as adding that after the series of search and rescue operations, the troops also rescued 107 kidnapped victims and arrested 20 collaborators and informants of the bandits, 13 rustled cattle marketers and 32 logistics suppliers. “Also, 81 bandits’ camps and their logistics bases were destroyed, including the notorious Dangote Triangle in the area. “It will also be recalled that the Sokoto State Governor, Mr. Aminu Tambuwal, during a visit to former President Olusegun Obasanjo in Abeokuta recently disclosed that farmers in the eastern part of the state had started returning to their farms following the restoration of normalcy by the troops of Operation Sahel Sanity in collaboration with troops of Operation Hadarin Daji in the North-west area,” the group stated. The civil advocacy group, therefore, expressed satisfaction at the return of normalcy in the areas “following the major deactivation of over 100 bandits and other activities of the criminals,” which it regretted had crippled agricultural and socio-economic lives of the people. The CPC urged Nigerians to see the patriotic and innovative efforts of the Nigerian high military command led by the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin, as a call to duty and reciprocate the gesture by supporting through volunteering credible and timely information to the military and other security and intelligence agencies to enable them to curb threats to the general security of the Nigerian people. It particularly praised President Muhammadu Buhari for “re-affirming confidence in the tenacity and resilience of Olonisakin-led Armed Forces of Nigeria to deliver on their mandate. “The armed forces can adequately protect Nigerians. The CDS and his able commanders and our troops have gallantly fought the terrorists, bandits, and other criminals in the country, employing operational synergy, cooperation and collaboration among the organs of the armed forces. “In the Northwest, we have recorded huge successes in the ongoing exercise Sahel Sanity in Katsina, Zamfara, Sokoto States and the environs at the Super Camp 4 in Faskari near Katsina, going by independent findings and credible field reports by the acting Director, Defence Media Operations, Brig General Onyeuko, who is on ground. “We particularly commend President Buhari for diligently assembling the current team led by Olonisakin. They deserve our support and prayers,” the CPC said