A series of top-flight games involving elite European teams across various football, competitions will be aired live on GOtv this week. The games scheduled to hold from today, 3rd September to Monday, 7th Septemberwill be broadcast live on SuperSport Football (GOtv channel 31) to GOtv Jolli and Max customers and on SuperSport LaLiga (GOtv channel 32) exclusive to GOtv Max customers. At the peak of the pack is the match fixture of the 2020/2021 UEFA Nations League between Ukraine and Switzerland at Arena L’viv stadium. The game kicks off at 7:45pm on Thursdayand will be aired live on SuperSport Football, GOtv channel 31. The two sides will be playing together for the first time after the 2010 friendly international match ended which ended with a 2-2 draw. Ukraine will be hoping to improve on their last season performance by ensuring they secure their spot in League A. On the other hand, Switzerland, who have had four wins from six games in the last year, will want to better their record in the present format of the competition by advancing from the group stage. GOtv’s coverage of the Nations League will continue, Friday, when Northern Ireland, hosts Romania in a group clash. This will be broadcast live on SuperSport LaLiga, GOtv channel 32 at 7:45pm. On Saturday, European team Denmark, will take on Belgium in the Nations League match which airs live at 7:45pmon SuperSport LaLiga, GOtv channel 32. Coach Oberto Martínez is hopeful his team, Belgium, will put their best foot forward and clinch a much needed victory for their home fans while Kasper Hjulmad of Denmark is looking forward to seeing Bruun Larsen prove himself worthy to be on the team. The weekend coverage will be completed with the broadcast of the clash between Serbia and Turkey on Sunday at 7:45pm. The encounter will be aired live on SuperSport LaLiga, channel 32. On Monday, league B will feature the match between Czech Republic and Scotland. The game which begins at 7:45pmon SuperSport LaLiga will see Scotland seeking to recover from their loss to Czech Republic who have won four of their six meetings with the former.