Mary Nnah The first ever Nigerian Women Business Virtual Summit organised by the Association for Nigerian Women Business Network (ANWBN) is set to hold this September during which key stakeholders from across the world will gather to address business challenges faced by women in Nigeria. The Nigerian Women Business Summit (NWBS) 2020, a three-day virtual event is which will hold from September 29 to October 1, 2020, will serve as a platform to launch the updated Women National Business Agenda and also galvanise action towards addressing the five identified key challenges faced by women who do business in Nigeria. The theme for this summit is ‘From Fear to Hope: Scaling Women Business Impact for a Decade of Action’ and renowned international and national speakers and panellists drawn from the public and private sector as well as civil society, will converge to discuss and proffer solutions to issues like lack of access to finance, gender inequality, insecurity, poor infrastructure and inadequate power. Over 30,000 guests are expected to attend. ANWBN, a coalition of over 50 different women associations focused on business and career development of its members, which will be hosting the first ever Nigerian Women Business Virtual Summit (NWBS 200), serves as the apex (private sector) body committed to mitigating the challenges faced by women pursuing business and career growth and has a combined membership of over four million women entrepreneurs. In 2016, ANWBN published the first edition of the Women National Business Agenda (WNBA), a vital tool that served to identify laws and regulations that hinder business activity of women and also offer concrete recommendations and reforms to remove these barriers and improve the business climate. Since the initial study, several changes have taken place within the women business community as well as the socio-economic and socio-political environments across Nigeria. Furthermore, the onset of the COVID-19 Pandemic and the unprecedented global response it necessitated has required further revision of the WNBA. ANWBN is working with various strategic partners to ensure the success of this summit including the Center for International Private Enterprise, Nigeria Export Promotion Council, and 1024 Concepts Limited amongst others. The Coalition is dedicated to the economic and socio-political development of Nigeria through a formalised system of public-private dialogue and partnership.