An aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) for the Bayelsa Central Senatorial bye election, Chief Gideon Ekeuwei, has faulted his disqualification and that of three others from the party’s primary scheduled for Saturday. Ekeuwei, a former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), in a statement on Tuesday, asked the party to reverse the decision . He noted that his disqualification would constrict the space for the emergence of a good representative for Bayelsa in the senate. The former SSG said the protests that trailed the disqualification on the streets of Bayelsa, showed that the decision was not only wrong but also unpopular . He alleged that putting certain aspirants above the others by the party’s screening committee was undemocratic and smacked of manipulation of the process. Ekeuwei stressed the importance of cohesive and articulate representation of the state at senate, saying he had the wherewithal and the experience to be a strong voice for Bayelsa at the upper chamber. He added that the emergence of incompetent representative would rob Bayelsa people the benefits accruable from the dexterity of their representatives . “Each senatorial district across the federation put their resources together to send their first eleven to the National Assembly where issues concerning the well-being of the people they represent are debated. “Every state benefits the most when the best among them are sent to the centre to project ,promote and protect its interests. “With my formidable experience as a key player in the workings of the state government and my positioning within and outside of the state interesting with business men and investors ,I understand the nature of politics at the national level and the impact it can have on local economies”,he said. He added that as a former member of the House of Representatives ,he made robust contributions on the floor and performed excellently well as member House Committee on Labour and Productivity ,member ,House Services Committee,member House Committee on Oil and Gas . The PDP chieftain added that his service to the state and his rich array of knowledge and skills put him head and shoulders above the current line of aspirants . He said he was a founding member of the party in the state and that his contribution to the state and party made him a good aspirant for Bayelsa Central (NAN).