Nigerian filmmaker Moses Inwang won two international awards at the 2020 The People’s Film Festival for his movie, ‘Cold Feet’. The People’s Film Festival is an annual event held in Harlem, New York but this year was held virtual like most award ceremonies so far, due to Covid-19. Held a fortnight, Inwang clinched the categories for “Best Director” and “Best International” at the 9th edition of the black excellence ceremony. Affirming the awards, Founder/Executive Director, The People’s Film Festival, Veronica Keit, acknowledged Inwang for winning the “Best Director” and “Best International”, via separate email messages. “Congratulations on winning ‘Best Director’ for your film ‘Cold Feet’ at The People’s Film Festival 2020 Virtual Edition. We thank you once again for screening with us at the People’s Film Festival and we hope to see you again next year!” In another related message, Keit wrote, “Congratulations on winning ‘Best International’ for your film ‘Cold Feet’ at The People’s Film Festival 2020 Virtual Edition. We thank you once again for screening with us at the People’s Film Festival and we hope to see you again next year!” The People’s Film Festival as part of its mission pledges to continue the work that needs to be done – essentially providing platforms for creatives to showcase their work. Inwang in a social post confirmed the award. “Accolades . . . accolades . . . accolades! We are proud and happy to be recipients of the Best International Film award and I’m especially proud to win the Best Director award at the just concluded @thepeoplesfilmfestival NY (Virtual Edition). Thanks to the organizers of this festival…” the multiple-award winning director wrote via his Instagram handle. The prolific filmmaker had in 2016 received a best international film award at The People’s Film Festival for his film, American Driver. Inwang’s award winning movie ‘Cold Feet’ is a 2019 romantic drama. The 1hr 40 minutes feature follows the story of a loving husband, Mayowa (Jim Iyke), who takes his wife of five years, Omoye (Joselyn Dumas), on a trip to a beautiful resort to celebrate her birthday and their wedding anniversary. All seems great until Omoye runs into a familiar face the charming young man Tare, (Enyinna Nwigwe) who is at the resort with his girlfriend Teni (Beverly Naya), with the intention to propose to her there. Sparks from an encounter ﬁve years ago between Omoye and Tare begins to ﬂy, old feelings begin to get rekindled, Tare is once again swept away by Omoye’s sexual charm and the connection they shared when they met. His intended proposal to his girlfriend suffers “cold feet” as he begins to play with ﬁre by openly chasing the ex-colonel’s wife, Omoye. Omoye was sure she could easily shrug off Tare’s advances and her desires towards her. She was wrong. Other stars in the thrilling romantic drama include Caroline Danjuma (what’s that her new name sef?), Segun Arinze, Padita Agu, and Femi Adebayo Salami. With a career spanning over a decade and half, Inwang got his first movie credit in 1998 with the co-produced ‘Two Good Men’. In 2004, he started his production company Sneeze Films and kicked off with the movie ‘Save My Soul’. In 2008, he directed the movie, ‘Lost Maiden’, a film which brought the issue of female circumcision to the fore of social discussion. In 2012, his film ‘Damage’ earned him the nomination for best director at the African Oscars held in Florida USA, while the film won the award for Best Film at the African Oscars Awards. In 2013, he won the City People Award for Best Director. His 2013 film Torn received nine nominations at the GIAMA awards in Houston, Texas and six nominations at the Best of Nollywood Awards. In 2014 he went on record as the first Director in Nollywood to receive two nominations as Best Director at the Nollywood Movies Awards. His movie, ‘The Last 3 Digits’ was nominated for best comedy at the African Movie Academy Awards AMAA in 2015 and was also chosen amongst the few selected Nollywood films that were screened to thousands of people at the Nollywood Week Paris. Inwang’s 2017 award-winning movie, ‘Alter Ego’, which starred Omotola Jalade and Wale Ojo won the director the Best Screenplay Award at the 2018 Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Award (AMVCA), aside being the most talked about movie that year. ‘Alter Ego’ also won the award for The Most Outstanding Film at the Africa International Film Festival AFRIFF. It also won the Best Director at the Toronto International Nollywood Film Festival. In 2015, ‘Stalker’, another film written, produced and directed by Moses Inwang, raked in a 12 nominations at the GIAMA awards Houston and won awards for Best Actor, Best Actress and Best Film categories. Still in 2015, ‘Stalker’ won the award for “Best International Film” at the New York film Festival. A romantic drama which premiered in Nigeria on 26 February 2016, ‘Stalker’ received 10 nominations and won 3 awards at the 2015 Golden Icons Academy Movie Awards in the United States.