Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City Two Policemen Tuesday lost their lives while several others sustained serious injuries in an accident involving the convoy of former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congresses (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The accident was said to have occured close to Oluku junction, along Benin-Ore highway when a trailer rammed into the backup security vehicle of the former governor of Edo State. The victims were travelling with him to catch up with the candidate of APC, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and other top chieftains of the party at a rally scheduled for Usen, Ovia South-west local government area of the state. The trailer, according to eye witness account, rammed into the vehicle conveying the Policemen from the back, forcing it into the bush. The vehicle in which Oshiomhole was traveling in was also said to have been damaged in the accident. But in a statement by Victor Oshioke, Media aide to Oshiomhole, he alleged assassination attempt on his principal. According to the statement, “Some minutes after 12 pm today, Tuesday September 1, 2020, there was a motor accident involving the convoy of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, along Benin-Lagos by-pass before Oluku junction. “The convoy was headed to Usen Community in Ovia South West Local Government Area of Edo State, where Comrade Adams Oshiomhole was expected to appear at a campaign rally alongside Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the APC governorship candidate in the September 19, 2020 election in the state, when a trailer driving in the same direction veered off its course, hit the back up Toyota Hilux vehicle carrying seven policemen, forcing it off the road, into the bush and rammed into the Sports Utility vehicle carrying Comrade Oshiomhole, causing substantial damage. “We are sad to report that two police personnel in the Toyota Hilux truck lost their lives while two others who are in critical condition receiving treatment at a hospital in the state. “Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and other persons in the convoy, apart from those indicated above did not sustain any injury. “It is pertinent to state, without fear of contradiction, that the convoy of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole was maintaining legal speed limits when this incident occurred. This explains why the trailer, travelling in the same direction over ran the Hilux truck off the road and still hit the SUV carrying Comrade Oshiomhole, causing substantial damage. “Without prejudice to police investigations, eyewitnesses account of the incident suggest, and we believe rightly too, that this was an assassination attempt, targeting Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. “It is painful that innocent policemen performing their legal duties lost their lives in this very unfortunate incident. “While we pray for the quick recovery of the injured policemen, we extend our condolences to the families of the departed.” According to the statement, “Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has visited the injured policemen in the hospital and deployed some of his aides to be on standby at the hospital to ensure that the wounded policemen are given the best medical attention possible. “The case was immediately reported at the Ekiadolor Police Station, and investigations are ongoing. “We call on the security agencies to do everything possible to unravel the circumstances surrounding this incident, especially because of the threat to the life of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the violence which has been directed towards him and those around him in recent times.” Obaseki said, “I received the news of the accident with shock and commiserate with the former governor of Edo State, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the candidate of the APC in the forthcoming governorship election, Osagie Ize-Iyamu over the very unfortunate incident involving their security aides and top chieftains of the party in the campaign team.” He added, “While we pray for strength for the families of the deceased persons, we also pray for the quick recovery of those who were injured and are receiving treatment.”