Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has said his government will continue to partner private organisations to lift the socio- economic facet of the state to an enviable height by creating enabling environment for them to operate. The governor stated this yesterday evening at the end of his two-day tour of projects sites across the state. Fayemi, who commenced the inspection last Monday, visited the four newly constructed model schools in Ado-Ekiti; the ultramodern Oja Oba Market complex; Ureje Water Dam and water treatment plant rehabilitation project at Ajilosun; JMK Rice Mill at Odo Ado; Ekiti State Water Corporation headquarters building project at Ilokun; Fajuyi Water Dam; Ado-Iyin road project; Secretariat complex projects and the Civic Centre. The governor also inspected Ikun dairy farm, Agbado-Ode-Isinbode-Omuo, Ijan-Ire-Ilupeju, and Oye-Isan-Iye-Ikun road projects; Egbe dam, Ero dam, and the rehabilitation of health centres at Agbado Ekiti, Ikota Ekiti, Isan Ekiti, Oye Ekiti and Igogo Ekiti. Fayemi said he was satisfied with the pace of work as well as quality of work being done, adding that he was convinced that most of the projects would be delivered at the scheduled deadline. He explained that the four model schools which were named after four prominent leaders in the state were meant to decongest some secondary schools within Ado Ekiti, the state capital, as well as open up the areas for urban development. According to the governor, naming the schools after Ekiti heroes, was an acknowledgement of the significant contributions of the icons whose names the schools bear to the development of education in the state. The Model schools which were meant to be delivered before the end of September, according to him, had reached significant level of completion and the contractors were working hard to meet project deadline. The governor further said his administration was at the verge of completing all the projects that were abandoned as a result of his exit from office in 2014 in addition to some of the abandoned projects inherited from previous administrations.