Ugo Aliogo The Senior Pastor, Trinity House, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, has advised the federal government on the need to build health zones to improve healthcare delivery and reduce medical tourism in the country. Ighodalo disclosed this yesterday in Lagos during the groundbreaking ceremony of an ultra-modern cancer center by Clinix Cancer Center. He called on the government to create the needed business environment for businesses to thrive. He advised Nigerians with the financial wherewithal to establish such lifesaving investment, “this big investment is timely, and it is geared towards responding to the rising needs of cancer treatment and prevention.” “COVID-19 pandemic has shown that we need more projects such as this which will reduce medical tourism. Cancer is one of the quick killer diseases, so government should strive to establish health care zones for the people,” he said. On his part, the Managing Director of GreenLife Pharmaceutical, Mr. Ebere Nwosu, said the driving force behind the project was to save the lives of those under the grips of cancer. The event which also marked the 50th birthday of Nwosu was designed to see the completion of the project in two years into a first class design. Nwosu said the deficiency in cancer facilities in the country and the incessant death rate caused by cancer disease triggered him to embark on the multi-million naira project. According to him, “We don’t have sufficient cancer facilities in Nigeria. Moreover, cancer issue is so dear to me that is why we chose to support the existing ones, so we are coming with two more machines to combat this deadly disease. I have decided to lay the foundation today being my 50th birthday hoping to round off in two years. “This cancer centre would help to save money for the government as our people will not run outside the country for cancer medical care. As for cost to access our services, we shall make it very affordable so that people don’t die because they couldn’t pay medical bills.” He remarked that the center would provide 100 beds and embark on Nuclear medicine to treat any kind of cancer case. Nwosu added: “We have one of the best diagnosis centers in Nigeria, so when we diagnose, we found out that treatment is a big issue, patients either go Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) or Ibadan and what we hear thereafter is that the machines are down, which eventually leads to death, as a result, we decided to establish this state- of -the- art cancer center. We don’t want to see people die unduly, if you go to LUTH, their center is fully booked which is not supposed to be. We have been into diagnosis; now we are going into hospitals, I’m doing this because I want to touch lives.”