Ferdinand Ekechukwu Football star, John Obi Mikel and his partner, Olga Diyachenko, gathered friends and family together to celebrate their twin daughters, Ava and Mia, on their 5th birthday last Sunday. The former Super Eagles captain and his Russian beauty shared videos and photos from the celebration which showed the party was a spectacle of fun for the kids and other parents who reveled with Mia and Ava. The Stoke City midfielder along with his wife Olga celebrated their children at his home in England. Each of the parents held Ava and Mia and posed for a photo which had cakes of cartoon characters designed on it. The midfielder displayed his culinary skills as he gave guests at the party a great surprise. In a video posted on his Instagram page earlier on D-Day, the former Chelsea star was seen preparing a meal in readiness for the birthday party of the twin daughters. In the video, friends and relatives at the party were left in awe at how the footballer judiciously stirred the pot of delicacy while cooking. In another photo, the former Nigerian international was spotted enjoying a portion of his meal with two other men who were dressed as chefs. Avia and Mia were born on September 13, 2015. Just last week, the pair resumed their first day at school and their parents were most excited about it. Their mum and Mikel’s spouse, Olga Diyachenko took to her Instagram handle to share the news. She posted a photograph of the girls with a caption: “First day at the big girls’ school! So proud of how brave and excited you both are! Love you”. The star footballer and African Nations Cup winner, Mikel has on a number of occasions shown that he is a super dad to his twin girls. A while ago, the girls were pictured resting their heads on his shoulder while he carries them to bed. Just a couple of months back in April, Mikel had a birthday party arranged by his partner. It was a pleasant surprise while observing their stay at home, after which he took to his social media handle to appreciate the mother of his twin daughters. The father of twin daughters took to his Instagram handle to thank Olga for organising a surprise birthday party for him. “Thank you for all the kind messages and wishes! And thank you my love @olga_allegra for organising the most special surprise,” he wrote. The former Trabzonspor midfielder, who shortly before the new season terminated his contract with the Turkish club, was quick to appreciate the gesture from his partner. The Nigerian footballer practically walked out of his contract with Turkish football side Trabzonspor just to be with his family during the height of Coronavirus pandemic. Mikel was said to have criticised the country’s FA for refusing to suspend the league despite the ravaging effect of the pandemic. The former Chelsea star only joined the club last summer shortly after helping the three-time African champions win bronze medal at the 2019 edition of the AFCON championship. While sharing the post on his official Instagram page, he accompanied it with a caption that says: “At the end of the day, that’s all that matters.” Mikel is regarded as the most successful Nigerian player with Premier League trophies, FA Cup, the Europa League and the Champions League. He made his Championship debut for his new club Stoke City when they went up against Millwall at The Den stadium. The 33-year-old played all 90 minutes for Michael O’Neill’s side as they prepared to take on Bristol City in their first home match of the season. Mikel’s relationship with his partner has come of age. It most times turn out befuddling with which term to describe her, maybe wife, girlfriend, or baby mama, partner or pair as the football star is yet to make it official. There had been a report by the UKSun that Mikel is also a father to two children with two different women he briefly dated. According to the report, he has a seven-year-old son and a four-year-old daughter. His reps did not deny the report but had preferred that the matter remain private as the midfielder is taking care of the kids. In all however, Mikel is glowing with Olga as she is seen often supporting him off and on the pitch. The Olympic bronze medalist has been with Olga since 2013. Mikel used to live in the same compound with her parents. According to Olga, it all started when she went to drop off their flat keys with Mikel. “Mikel used to be my parents neighbour. We lived there for five years. As my parents were leaving the flat, I dropped off the keys at his flat and that was how we met and started off as friends and then grew into lovers. It was never a magical love story because we were neighbours for five years but we never met until I went to drop off the keys when my parents were about to leave the apartment.” She further explained that their kids don’t have any Igbo or Russian names because they are citizens of the world. Olga said they would decide which tradition to follow, Russian, British where they were born or Nigerian. She said she liked Nigerian music but doesn’t watch Nollywood movies. Olga said “I don’t watch Nollywood movies. Mikel watches a lot of Nigerian movies. I don’t watch them. I love listening to Nigerian music. They have nice beats.” 