Goddy Egene
The Chief Executive Officer of Lafarge Africa Plc, Mr. Khaled El Dokani, has said proactive measures put in place have been instrumental to the positive results the company has recorded in recent times. Lafarge Africa reported a jump of 89 per cent in profit after tax to N23.329 billion for the half year ended June 30, 2020, compared with N9 billion in 2019. Speaking at the, ‘Facts Behind the Figures,’ presentation at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) last week, El Dokani said the health and safety of employees, communities and other stakeholders remain at the heart of their operations especially at this time with the COVID-19 Pandemic. “Our route-to-market strategy has proven to be effective, particularly, our expanded distribution network which proved very valuable during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. We have steadily expanded our retail footprint in our core markets. The recent re-launch of our Supaset brand has continued to gain traction with our customers, especially with the block makers,” he explained. According to him, the majority of Lafarge Africa plants are environmental management system (EMS) certified to ISO 14001:2015, noting that Lafarge Africa’s initiatives are designed to contribute to the attainment of the Sustainability Development Goals.
“The company commits to best practices such as minimizing the use of water and replacing sources of water in communities, adopting non-polluting forms of renewable energy and recycling materials,” he added. In his remarks, the CEO of the NSE, Mr. Oscar Onyema, said the Exchange recognises efforts made by the board and management of Lafarge Africa Plc towards achieving business continuity by improving operations and restoring investor confidence in the company. “Indeed, the growth recorded in the company’s 2020 half year financial performance shows the strategic resolve and dedication of the board and management of this esteemed company. The exchange also commends the company’s efforts in curbing the spread of Covid-19 and its recent interventions and donations to support national efforts towards cushioning the effect of the pandemic on the Nigerian populace,” Onyema said. He assured that the NSE would continue to provide a platform to support listed companies in meeting their strategic business objectives. “We will continue to position ourselves as the African exchange of choice for issuers and investors by implementing policies aimed at strengthening the corporate governance of our listed companies and providing products that are aligned to investors’ requirements in a fair and orderly market,” the NSE boss said.