Nigeria has continued to produce young entrepreneurs from every sectors of the country. One niche that’s gradually gaining reputation for its impact in the society is the beauty industry. Queeneth Wenike Beddie-memberr is among the game changers who have perfected their craft in the area of skincare with her brand, Lashi skincare soaring to the top in the industry. The economist-turned-entrepreneur was inspired to establish Lashi skincare in 2014 owing to her inability to secure a well-paying job that matched her qualifications. Her desire to be financially independent and passion for skin care also inspired her to set up the business. After completing her first degree from university of Calabar, Queeneth took up training and a second degree in a beauty course from an India-based institute to enhance her skills. “I have always wanted to be independent, so centering on my love for the art of beauty, I decided to attend beauty care training institute in the India,” she says. Queeth says her initial start-up capital was from her savings. “My initial start-up capital was from my savings— my monthly stipend during my first degree program,” she says. Since its establishment, Lashi skincare has emerged as one of the leading beauty brand in Nigeria. “Since the launch of my business in 2014, it has grown tremendously,” Queeneth says. “From taking orders from only family and friends, I now service over 200 orders monthly online, aside when I ran promotions, the number increase massively into hundreds, and our stores in Port harcourt record over 200 hundred each monthly, I have trained over 500 people and motivated some to start their businesses,” the young entrepreneur says. Lashi skincare has luxury collections of skin care products made from a variety of quality hypoallergenic plant extracts, rich in vitamins and minerals that gives a gorgeous look and promote skin health with a classic fragrance that soothes today’s fashion. Rooted in Port Harcourt, Lashi skincare has gained reputation across states in Nigeria and have shipped her products to over 30 countries since its inception. It’s exceptional service and product makes them one of the most-sought-after Nigerian beauty brand. On her advice to other entrepreneurs, she says, “Have solid business plans, prepare for financial challenges, be frugal, remember you are a start-up and don’t be afraid to ask for help.” “Build a team that shares the same vision as you. The structure is the most important aspect of your business. Challenge yourself, take the risk, have a vision, know your customer, learn from complaints and ask for feedback,” she advises.