The Vice-Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 general elections, Mr. Peter Obi, has stated that improved access to education remains a critical key strategy that could be employed to reduce poverty in the country. Obi said Nigeria would successfully move millions of people out of poverty if “we invest more in education which remains a key sector of economic growth.”
Obi, who made this known in a message to celebrate the International Literacy Day 2020, said access to quality basic education is a globally recognised solution to breaking the chains of poverty, especially in developing countries like Nigeria. He explained that the International Literacy Day celebration provided Nigerian leaders another opportunity to reflect on their contributions towards educational provisions to Nigerian children who had no access to good education. He stated that consequent upon the changing nature of the global economy, driven by technological advancements and globalization, it is now more important than ever to invest in human capital and ensure that everyone has access to basic education to ensure success in life. Maintaining that investment in human capital through investment in education not only reduces poverty level, Obi said it also reduces income inequality and promotes economic growth and national development.
He asserted that a developing country like Nigeria, truly desirous of lifting millions of its citizens out of poverty, must invest in education, especially at the basic level. “We are once again provided with another opportunity to reflect on our commitments to education, which remains the easiest and surest way of reducing poverty and fostering economic growth and development. Every Nigerian child deserves access to quality education that will equip him with the knowledge and skills required for the future. Nigerian leaders must therefore encourage education with substantial financial commitment to the sector,” Obi said. He lamented that over 13 million children are out of school in Nigeria, describing such as a recipe not just for economic stagnancy, but also for national disaster. He opined that unless Nigerian leaders commit substantial resources to accommodating a greater number of out-of-school children in education, the country’s economy would continue to limp and national peace and security might continue to elude the nation.
The International Literacy Day is celebrated on September 8 every year.