Landover Aviation Business School (LABS) has produced yet another Best Performer in Nigeria in the March 2020 Diet of the International Air Transport Association (IATA) Foundation in Travel and Tourism Course. The best performing graduate, Mrs. Uche Orji, made a distinction in the March 2020 Diet of IATA Foundation in Travel and Tourism Course and became IATA’s Overall Best Performer in Nigeria. LABS produced IATA Best Performers in Nigeria in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2016, 2017,2018 as well as in 2019, which has positioned the school as one of the best aviation training centres in West Africa. Executive Director of Landover Company Limited, Mrs. Aduke Atiba, while presenting the award of recognition to Orji, congratulated the awardee on her outstanding performance and encouraged her to imbibe the attributes of excellence, resilience and character as elements for success in life.
“You must be excellent in whatever you do, and I think Uche has shown us that. To participate in this reputable course and come out tops requires an excellent work spirit. This is a reward of hard work and excellent performance which is our trademark at Landover Aviation Business School. We are proud of your achievement,” Atiba said. She also stated that all recent LABS’ awardees to-date were females, noting that this trend is simply a sign that women are increasingly taking their place in the industry. Orji expressed gratitude to God as she also thanked her family and LABS for her achievement. She stated, “I am a very ambitious person and I strive for the best in everything I do. I thank God for this opportunity to be celebrated. I also thank LABS’ instructors for the impact they made on me. They took their time to explain everything carefully to us.” Furthermore, the Business Manager Operations for Landover Company Limited, Mr. Tunde Adeniyi said the achievement was the beginning of greater things to come for the awardee, as he emphasized on the quality and high standard at LABS. “This award is an indication of the commitment to excellence in the Landover Aviation Business School; I thank the instructors and the team at LABS for doing us proud,” he stated.