Africa’s most loved storyteller, MultiChoice, is committed to continuing the journey of storytelling for years to come. At the heart of this commitment is the desire to tell stories that resonate with Africans throughout the continent, stories that echo shared sentiments of triumph, success and growth, stories that share ideals, beliefs, embrace change and encourage diversity. It is through these stories that we can come together as one. This promise to showcase the best of African storytelling is perfectly captured in the “10,000 Stories” promo which was launched as part of the recent MultiChoice Media Showcase. This creative masterpiece was the brainchild of poet and writer Lebohang Mashango. It explores themes around diversity, innovation, local content, international content, sports and a general love for stories. Brought to life by Mashango and other talented African poets, it is an ode to all who have been part of the journey, celebrating the legacy of the MultiChoice and the more than 10,000 stories which have been told over the years. ‘I drew inspiration from Maya Angelo and the grand idea explored in most African philosophy. The idea that one individual is amplified when standing as a collective ‘I come as one but, I stand as 10,000’, the core of the poem is around collectivism and collaboration, something storytelling does so well. Stories are a way of preserving memories and making history and MultiChoice through its existence has made history, changing the ritual around coming together. The modes of viewing content may change with technological advancement, however, the essence of storytelling as preserving history does not change”, Lebohang Mashango. MultiChoice has been telling African stories for over 20 years, reaching far and wide across the continent. Its DStv and GOtv platforms have continued to grow over the years, launching numerous local channels with more planned as the group increases its local content investment. ‘Storytelling plays a critical role in our society; it shapes the hopes and dreams of our youth – it cradles aspirations while positively changing pre-conceived ideas on what the world has to offer. It is through storytelling that many dreams are expressed, and it is through storytelling that our people learn that as much as we are diverse, we are also quite similar’ says John Ugbe, CEO MultiChoice Nigeria. MultiChoice is determined to continue showcasing unforgettable stories that cater to a diverse audience. At the heart of MultiChoice’s reason for existence is to provide customers with variety and choice, it is with this in mind that the company is focused on enhancing its innovation, value and local entertainment offering. ‘We are proud to have been at the forefront of enhancing the local television industry, by investing in original productions which showcase authentic stories and talent across our continent. Great stories either reflect reality or create one, we are aiming to create a reality that is progressive, inclusive and forward-thinking.’ concluded John Ugbe, CEO MultiChoice Nigeria.