By Kingsley Nwezeh The Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas, yesterday approved new postings of some senior officers in the Nigerian Navy. The reorganisation affected 11 rear admirals and 14 commodores. A statement issued by the Nigerian Navy Headquarters said Rear Admiral Matthew Emuekpere is the new Chief of Policy and Plans, Naval Headquarters. Emuekpere was the former Chief of Naval Transformation at the Naval Headquarters. Rear Admiral Tanko Dakwat, Chief of Naval Safety and Standards, Naval Headquarters, was reappointed to Naval Headquarters as Chief of Administration. The former Director of Plans, Naval Headquarters, Rear Admiral Christian Ezekobe, is now the new Chief of Naval Transformation, Naval Headquarters, while Rear Admiral Kamarudeen Lawal, who was the Director of Research and Development, Naval Headquarters, was reappointed to Naval Headquarters as Chief of Naval Safety and Standards. The statement signed by the Director of Information, Nigerian Navy, Commodore Suleman Dahun on behalf of the CNS, said Rear Admiral Dolapo Kolawole, who was the immediate past Director of Training, Defence Headquarters, was reappointed to Defence Headquarters as Director of Development while Rear Admiral Jatau Luka, formerly Director of Administration, Naval Headquarters Abuja, moves to Defence Intelligence Agency as Director of Logistics. The reorganisation exercise also showed that Rear Admiral Maurice Eno, who was the Director of Development, Defence Headquarters, was reappointed to Defence Headquarters as Director of Training while Rear Admiral Taiye Imam, formerly the Chief Staff Officer, Headquarters Eastern Naval Command, resumes at Naval Headquarters as the Director of Administration. Rear Admiral Idowu Yusuf, formerly Chief Staff Officer, Naval Training Command, was posted to Naval Headquarters as Director of Plans, while Rear Admiral Joseph Akpan was reappointed to Naval Headquarters (Naval Safety and Standards) as Director of Research and Development. Similarly, Rear Admiral Vincent Okeke, who was the Director of Education, Defence Headquarters, moves to Naval Training Command as the Chief Staff Officer, while Commodore Priston Efedue is now the Chief Staff Officer, Eastern Naval Command.