Amby Uneze in Owerri The revelation made recently by the former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Deputy Governor, Obadiah Mailafia, over sinister moves by some groups to wage a war against some sections of the country may not be ruled out completely, as the Archbishop of Owerri Catholic Ecclesiastic Province, Most Rev. Anthony Obinna, has stated lamented that Nigeria’s future is bleak “because government has failed to combat insecurity in the country.” The cleric, who was delivering a sermon on the 2020 Father’s Day celebration of the Archdiocese, which was shifted forward due to the lockdown occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, at the Maria Assumpta Cathedral in Owerri, Imo State capital, blamed the government for remaining silent over the “senseless killings of innocent citizens by Fulani herdsmen without any effort to curtail the menace.” According to the clergyman, “It is very unfortunate that our government and security personnel have failed the country. They look the other way when these bandits continue to kill and maim innocent Nigerians on a daily basis. Unfortunately, there is war in this country.” Archbishop Obinna maintained that Nigerians are currently suffering from a virus of brutality and anarchy rather than the COVID-19 pandemic. “This is the Nigerian form of virus tormenting us today, not coronavirus. The future of Nigeria is uncertain, even though we are afraid whether we will be alive to see another election in 2023.” He, however, urged Nigerians and Christians to embrace the teaching of Jesus Christ which he said centres on love, peace and unity, lamenting that “the future of the country is bleak.” Mailafia had in a radio interview alerted the country of impending danger to be orchestrated by bandits to allegedly wipe out the Southern Nigeria people which the government and security agencies are not comfortable with. According to him, “by 2022, they (Fulani militia) want to start a civil war in Nigeria. Phase two is they will start moving from house to house killing prominent people in Southern Nigeria, and accuse the government of complicity. They are not only unable and unwilling to arrest the crisis but they are part and parcel of the killings.”