In a frantic move to contribute to the further development of the women’s football league in Nigeria, the Proprietor and financier of Ratel FC of Makurdi, Benue State, Barrister Paul Edeh, on Wednesday invested in the Nigeria Women’s Football League (NWFL), making valuable donations to the rebranding and development of the Women’s League, at the Glass House in Abuja. The Ratel FC boss in company with some of his club staff members, stated that, he was at the NWFL new Secretariat to flag off his club’s partnership and investment with the NWFL towards a better administration of the women’s league. To achieve this, Paul Edeh, donated office hardware and materials to the NWFL Secretariat. These items include: 20 standard soccer balls, one Sharp heavy duty photocopier, Ratel FC Team Jersey and a giant customized wall clock. He promised to continually make worthy donations to the NWFL before the start of every season. Edeh, disclosed that, his decision to partner the NWFL, is in appreciation of the NWFL giant strides and bold initiative to reposition and restructure the women’s league since the Aisha Falode-led board was inaugurated. He added that, the Chairperson of the NWFL in a very short time after taking over the leadership of the women’s league has made remarkable improvements compared to what the league used to be. “With Aisha Falode, the three tiers of the women’s league, the Premier, Championship and the Nationwide (amateur) are today taken more seriously and their standards have improved tremendously, as more league players feature in the senior national team, the Super Falcons.” The donated items by Ratel FC boss were received by the new Chief Operating Officer of the NWFL, Faith Anuge, in the presence of board member, Joe Amene. The NWFL C.O.O, thanked Barrister Edeh for his wonderful donations and contribution to the development of women’s football in Nigeria. She urged other stakeholders to partner and invest in the NWFL just as Ratel FC boss has done, showing his passion for the development of women’s football in Nigeria and indeed Africa.