By James Sowole No fewer than six persons sustained varying degree of injuries while about five vehicles in the campaign trains of both the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were vandalised, as supporters of the two parties clashed Wednesday, at Oba-Akoko in Akoko South West Local Government area of Ondo State. Spokespersons of the campaign organisations of the two political parties engaged each other in accusations and counter accusations. The spokesperson of the Akeredolu Campaign Organisation, Mr Richard Olabode, in a statement, alleged that hoodlums loyal to the PDP Governorship candidate, Eyitayo Jegede SAN, on Wednesday attacked the convoy of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu SAN, at Oba Akoko in Akoko Southwest Local Government area of the state. Olabode said Akeredolu and the APC campaign train was on the way to Ikare-Akoko in continuation of the local government campaign rally when the PDP struck and attacked the convoy of the campaign train. He said the branded campaign vehicle donated to Akeredolu campaign by Mr Sola Iji, was set ablaze by the PDP hoodlums. The spokesperson said the driver of the vehicle sustained bodily injury and was rushed to hospital for treatment. Similarly, the Head of Media and Research of Eyitayo Jegede Campaign Organisation, Mr Samuel Fasua, said it was thugs in the campaign train of Akeredolu that attacked Jegede Team that was already on ground at Oba Akoko in continuation of campaign for the October 10, 2020 Election. Fasua said no fewer than three vehicles in the convoy of Jegede was badly damaged while Jegede himself sought refuge inside the palace of the monarch of Oba- the Oloba, Oba Adeniyi Adegoroye, as gunshots were being fired outside. He said: “Curiously, Akeredolu was sighted inside the convoy while the attacks lasted, while police operatives in the location simply vascillated and looked on in the face of the orgies of madness. ‘In the last five days too, there have been series of attacks on PDP supporters in Aiyede-Ogbese community in Akure North Local Government Area leading to machete and gun attacks and the burning of at least two houses of PDP members. “These continued attacks on PDP members by Aketi’s political thugs and shock troops, are no doubt threatening the peace of our dear state. “We earnestly call on President Muhammadu Buhari and the Inspector-General of Police to urgently wade in, to save the lives of members of the public who are being prevented by the powers-that-be in Ondo State from belonging to political parties of their choice. “We are gravely oppressed, and are overwhelmed beyond words.”