Sunday Okobi Halogen Group, one of Nigeria’s leading security risk management organisations, has been voted as Nigeria’s Outstanding Contract Security Company for the third year in a row. During a recent international webinar to mark the 2020 edition of the Nigeria Outstanding Security Performance Awards (OSPAs), Halogen Group emerged the country’s top security risk management company in a keenly contested selection process. According to the organisers of OSPAs, which coordinated the security industry awards in partnership with SECUREX West Africa in a statement, “The awards recognise exceptional industry talent and innovation in different categories.” The winners, the organisers explained in a statement, “were selected by an esteemed panel of industry figures who judged entries using the same criteria applied across the world. Each winner demonstrated that they have performed at an exceptional level and has shown their commitment and outstanding performance within the security sector.” In a triple win, which marked a major milestone in the security industry awards, two of Halogen Group’s operating companies, Avert Halogen, its technology solutions company, and Academy Halogen, its degree awarding security risk management training institute, were also voted as the outstanding security technology installer/integrator and the outstanding security training initiative, emerging the singular OSPA winners in their areas of specialisation respectively. Reacting to the awards, the Group Managing Director, Halogen Group, Mr. Wale Olaoye, described them as a vindication of the company’s commitment to global best practice, uncompromising commitment to excellence and its focused investment in technology and capacity building. The Halogen Group boss, who expressed gratitude to the group’s employees, associates and clients for their support, noted that the triple recognition by the global body came barely one year after Halogen announced its robust digital transformation. The company said this year also marked the third in a row that Academy Halogen would cart home the top security training honors. The Outstanding Security Performance Awards (OSPAs) is a globally recognised independent security awards, which reward outstanding performance in the security sector in the United Kingdom, United States of America, and other parts of the world. Halogen Group, which was incorporated in Nigeria nearly three decades ago as Halogen Security Company Limited, is West Africa’s leading risk advisory and integrated security solutions group.