Kemi Olaitan in Ibadan Amid effusive commendations for the successful execution of Light-Up Oyo project, Phase One, which saw some major roads and streets in Ibadan come alive with lights deploying Smart LED street-lighting technology, the Oyo State Governor, Mr. Seyi Makinde, yesterday kicked-off the second phase of the Light-Up Oyo Project, in Ogbomoso town. The governor also kicked-off the construction of the three-kilometre Under-G-LAUTECH Road. The governor also used the occasion to fire a warning salvo at opposition politicians in the state, saying they have nothing to offer to in 2023. Makinde said that the same opposition politicians who have been posturing about 2023 were roundly rejected by the people in 2019, stating that such politicians have nothing to offer by trying to distract him with talks about 2023. He asked them to calm down, as, adding that, it is too early to start talking about second term. Makinde stated that even if he decides not to seek re-election in 2023, the state will not fall into the hands of charlatans anymore. “Let me sound this: If I will not seek re-election, I am sure that Oyo State will never, again, be in the hands of charlatans. So, calm down. It is even too early to start talking about a second term. Some parties that do not have even one councilor are saying that they will send me out of the Government House in 2023,” he said. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Makinde, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, indicated that the governor stated these while kicking-off the second phase of the Light-Up Oyo Project, awarded at the cost of N28,360,975,609.76 . He said the project is expected to cover 223.8 kilometres of roads across all the zones of the state, commending the state’s Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) for saving the state over N1 billion after it vetted the original proposal. He added that the second phase of the Light-Up Oyo Project is expected to be completed within nine months, noting that the first phase in Ibadan is already at 87.5 per cent completion. He stated that the phase one would have been 100 per cent completed but for the COVID-19 pandemic, which stopped a number of expatriates from making it to the country. The project was awarded to Messrs Ledco Allied Enterprises, following what the government saw as an impeccable track record brought to bear in carrying out the Phase One of the project and the smart LED street lighting technology used for the project, which was first of its kind in Oyo State in terms of the magnitude of deployment, efficiency and financial commitment. According to the Project Consultant, Makinde’s recognition of security as the first requirement for development is the driving force behind the Light-Up Project, which, he noted, will, apart from providing illumination, have Wifi and CCTV Cameras incorporated into it.