By Emma Okonji Samsung has introduced a new foldable smartphone that pairs bold design with advanced engineering. After releasing two foldable devices and listening to user feedback on the most requested upgrades and new features, Samsung launched the Galaxy Z Fold2 with innovations that offer users enhanced refinements and unique foldable user experiences. Giving details of its latest smartphone during a virtual press conference, the Managing Director, Samsung Electronics Nigeria, Mr. Caden Yu, said: “The journey to reach the next generation of mobile is full of originality and innovation. With the launch of the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold2, we closely listened to user feedback to ensure we were bringing meaningful improvements to the hardware, while also developing new innovations to enhance the user experience. Further strengthened by our industry-leading partnerships with Google and Microsoft, we are reshaping and redefining the possibilities of the mobile device experience.” Galaxy Z Fold2 would combine the portability and flexibility of a smartphone with the power and screen size of a tablet for ultimate productivity. Whether folded or unfolded, customers can enjoy a luxury mobile experience with Galaxy Z Fold2’s premium design,” Yu added.
Speaking about its features, he said the smartphone comes with the best cinematic viewing, as the Galaxy Z Fold2 comes packed with two edge-to-edge, nearly bezel-less Infinity-O displays. “The cover screen is a 6.2-inches screen which delivers a smartphone view and unfolds to a full cinematic view on the massive 7.6 inches screen. The new foldable future brings customers’ experience the next level of multitasking with the ability to open up to three windows and drag and drop content across windows. While the flex mode allows customers to view their content at different angles and on two screens at the same time, it also provides a hands free camera experience. Customers can also capture and view images or video right after the shot is taken and instantly delete the result without entering the gallery,” Yu said. He added that the Galaxy Z Fold2 would be available from September 11, with a limited phone cover offer, Samsung Care+(discounted screen repair, hardware repair and software coverage) and four months YouTube premium.