Ugo Aliogo In commemoration of the International Identity Day on the September, 16, stakeholders in the Nigerian identity verification and management sub-sector will be holding a virtual event to examine the theme: Enabling Nigeria’s Economic and Social Growth with Digital Identity. The occasion is sponsored by VerifyMe Nigeria, in partnership with TechCabal. In a statement made available to THISDAY by the company, speakers include Group Managing Director, Interswitch, Mitchell Elegbe, and Chief Executive Officer, VerifyMe Nigeria, Esigie Aguele, and others. The statement said the conversation would examine how a wholistic digital identity system would unlock the potential within the country’s e-governance and the digital economy. Aguele said: “We are excited to be a part of this conversation to explore the state of the digital identity ecosystem in Nigeria. The importance of a robust digital identity infrastructure as a bedrock for nation-building cannot be overemphasized, particularly as the country seeks to recover from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Digital Identity provides a sustainable pathway for growing non-oil revenue streams such as e-Commerce and FinTech. As a key player in the Nigerian identity verification space, VerifyMe is passionate about enabling initiatives that enhance the value proposition within the digital identity ecosystem. We see this conversation both as a forum to express that passion and also as a national service towards supporting government’s efforts at achieving a legal identity for all citizens.” The statement explained that in 2017, a global coalition of countries and United Nation affiliates christened the September, 16 as International ID-Day to create awareness for Target 16.9 of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), adding that the mission is to provide legal identity for all, including birth registration, by 2030. The statement added: “As such, the Federal Government established the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) in 2007 to ensure all citizens and lawful residents in the country has legal identity documentation. The Commission is currently implementing the Nigeria Digital Identification for Development Project, supported by a $115 million credit facility from the World Bank.”