Like a rock rolling down a mountain with nothing to obstruct its path, the First Lady of Imo State has taken the first step towards her well-known goal—the justification of the might of women and the ultimate campaign to have the womenfolk level that might in their super significant contribution to society. Laying out the specifics of her grand design, Barrister Chioma Uzodinma essentially routed a cocktail of suppressed ambitions and guided them towards the apex of personal, social and national development. First Lady Chioma Uzodinma lit the sparks of strength and determination in the womenfolk during the 2020 edition of Imo women August (IWAM). This is an annual event designed to draw out the matriarchal might of Imo Women and have them inspire, motivate and transform themselves, regardless of their ages, professional qualifications or standing. This time, IWAM was held at the Heroes Square, Owerri of Imo State. Several notable dignitaries were present, including Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma, his Deputy, Prof. Placid Njoku, Minister of Information, Lai Muhammed, Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, and several others. These were entertained to activities such as marching parade, cultural dance exhibition and competition, food competition, and the presentation of gift prizes for winners. The pinnacle of the event, however, was the speech delivered by Imo State First Lady, Barrister Chioma Uzodinma. In her rousing remarks, Barrister Chioma Uzodinma reminisced on the fact that women are the foundation upon which all progressive societies are built and invited the womenfolk to embrace that truth and take active steps towards manifesting it. Borrowing momentum from the obvious evidence of her husband’s accomplishments, Barrister Uzodinma called upon her audience to direct their support, strength and service towards perfecting the development process that was already underway for the various components of Imo State: security, healthcare, civil service reform, road and drainage construction, youths and women empowerment, and several others. All in all, the First Lady hit the ground running, projecting a course of limitless possibilities and accomplishments unto the gathering of women. She challenged them to do more and be more, and push their efforts towards achieving the goal of the 2020 episode of IWAM—suppressing the miasma of human rights violations, and clearing the debris that exists by reason of the Covid-19 pandemic. Riding on the course projected by Barrister Uzodinma, the Commissioner for Gender and Vulnerable Group, Lady Nkechinyere Ugwu affirmed and praised the intentions and actions of the First Lady. She also called attention to the various empowerment packages that Barrister Uzodinma had distributed to the women, and acknowledged the support of Imo Women for Governor Hope Uzodinma and his administration. Thus began the movement of the womenfolk in Imo State, spearheaded by none other than their First Lady, Barrister Chioma Uzodinma.