The MTN Foundation and the Music Society of Nigeria (MUSON) recently graduated recipients of the MTN MUSON scholarship. The 13th graduation ceremony held virtually for recipients of the prized MTN MUSON Scholarship Award for 2018, drawn from various states. Presenting the graduands, the Director, MTN Foundation, Dennis Okoro said, “on behalf of the MTN family, I thank you all for entrusting us with your gift through this programme. We are honoured to be part of your success story and look forward to the great things you will achieve.” While commending MTN for the gesture, the Director, School of Music, MUSON, Princess Banke Ademola said: “We thank MTNF for the golden opportunity and scholarship given to the students. More so, the unflinching support at monitoring by the staff of MTN. Surrounding the graduation ceremony of our students, although it is different this year with the COVID-19 pandemic, we still had glamorous presentations both in live stream and virtually.” MTN Foundation has impacted students through various initiatives, including the MTN Science and Technology Scholarship Scheme (MTN STSS) and the MTN Scholarship Scheme for Blind Students (MTN SSBS). Over 300 students have been awarded under the MTN/MUSON scholarship scheme since 2006. Meanwhile, MTN Foundation has called for application for the 2020 MUSON scholarship programme. The call for application, which began on August 7, 2020 is open to musically inclined young Nigerians across the country. Since 2006, the MTN Foundation, in partnership with MUSON, has funded and developed over 330 music scholars providing scholarship covering tuition, transportation, resource materials, among others for a two-year diploma programme. MUSON’s internationally recognised programme promotes the understanding and performance of classical and contemporary music. All applicants must possess a minimum academic qualification of GCE with at least five credit passes, including English Language or its SSCE equivalent. In addition, applicants must have a grade 5 or higher pass certificate of MUSON or any other recognised music examining body.
Speaking on the scholarship, the acting Executive Secretary of MTN Foundation, Odunayo Sanya said: “Music is a universal form of expression. Music education is however not readily available or affordable to millions of young Nigerians. It has been inspiring seeing our young scholars excel in various areas of music across the globe. We are excited at the talents we will receive this year, and look forward to playing our part in achieving their dreams.”