Nigeria’s premier sports betting company, 1960Bet has rebranded to make their punters have a new lease of life after staging a strong comeback to the sports betting scene. Speaking at a media session yesterday at the company’s corporate headquarters in Lagos, Executive Director Oluwatosin Ayoola, said that with a new management in place, “ We are staging a strong comeback and retaking our place as the market leader when it comes to sports betting in Nigeria. We are the pioneer in Nigeria and we have rebranded and set to give our customers the very best. “To our customers out there, our message is this…you play, you win and we pay. And the payment would be prompt and straight to your bank account which is like cash,” observed Ayoola. As part of the incentives to woo sports betting punters back to 1960Bet, the executive director of the foremost betting company in Nigeria announced that 1960Bet will be running an Independence promo beginning from today up until 30 September to celebrate the country’s 60th anniversary. “The promo is open to any punter who stakes up to N1000 with the prizes ranging from N10,000 to smartphones and N100,000,” he stressed. The company’s new Brand Ambassador, Debo Adedayo (a.k.a Mr Macaroni) was unveiled to sports journalists at the event. Mr. Adedayo is an actor as well as popular video content producer. Adedayo, who plays the comedic role of a randy man in online videos that regularly attract large viewership on the social media. Mr Macaroni said he was very pleased to be working with the brand. “1960Bet is the number one sports betting company in Nigeria and I’m glad to be associated with them. “I’m delighted to accept this role and I’m committed to do my best to promote the brand with all the means available to me. I’m confident that 1960Bet will continue to do their best to satisfy their customers and reach for greater heights. The brand will continue to render excellent services to their agents and punters.” When asked how good the new deal compares with others he has had in the past, Mr. Macaroni resorted to one of his most popular refrains, replying: “All I can tell you is that the 1960Bet deal is ‘fantabulous!’.