Rivers State Governor, Mr. Nyesom Wike, has mocked his detractors, especially opposition parties, saying they were disappointed over the last-minute decision by organised labour to suspend a planned protest in the state. He said his detractors and opposition parties expected workers to shut down the state and plunge it into crisis. But the governor said he was satisfied at the resolution of all contending issues between labour and the government. He said: “All the issues were mere understandings and now that they have understood our position, they said they have to suspend the protest. “So, for me, I am happy that there was nothing like conflict at the end of the day; those of them who were thinking that Rivers State will be shut down were highly disappointed.” The Commissioner for Information and Communications, Mr. Paulinus Nsirim, said Wike spoke after inspecting the Rebisi, GRA, Rumuola and Rumuogba flyover bridges and ongoing road construction in Port Harcourt and Obio/Akpor Local Government Areas. The governor said he was utilising the mandate given to him by the people of the state to provide basic infrastructure for them. He said that through passion and commitment he had judiciously utilised scarce resources for the development of the state. He said: “It is not the amount of resources you get that determines the kind of projects you carry out for your people. “It is your commitment, your passion for the development of your people. If you have very good resources and you don’t have the passion and commitment, resources cannot be utilised for the good of the people. “If you have the passion and commitment as we do, even the little resources that we have, will be judiciously used for the development of our state.” Wike expressed happiness with the speed at which the various flyover bridges were advancing, explaining the Rebisi flyover would be completed by December while the Rumuogba and Okoro-Nu-Odo flyovers would be completed by February, 2021. He described the Rebisi flyover as an engineering masterpiece and commended Julius Berger for delivering a quality project.