Goddy Egene
The World Business Angels Investment Forum (WBAF), an affiliated partner of the G20 Global Partnership for Financial Inclusion (GPFI), has appointed the Director, Communications, Public Affairs & Sustainable Development, Lafarge Africa Plc, Folashade Ambrose-Medebem, to serve as a Senator representing Nigeria. WBAF aims to ease access to finance, promote financial inclusion, and create more jobs and social justice. WBAF said that under the leadership of its chairman, Baybars Altuntas, it welcomed the appointment as Ambrose-Medebem, adding that she will once again distinguish herself in the pursuit of the organisation’s commitment to collaborate globally in order to empower the economic development of the world by fostering innovative financial instruments for startups, scaleups, innovators, entrepreneurs and SMEs and to promote gender equality and women’s participation in all sectors of the world economy. Speaking on her appointment, Ambrose-Medebem said: “I am extremely delighted at this great opportunity to serve with a great sense of national pride. My focus will be to drive for veritable representation that positively impacts gender equality in the corporate business world and also support local investors access to the global angels market.’’ She noted further that she will contribute her quota to the attainment of WBAFG20 GPFI origins firmly rooted as a rapid-response, crisis-management group, and an effective contributor to global economic and financial stability. She will joins as the second Nigerian Senator at the Grand Assembly of the WBAF will in her role encourage and initiate collaboration between WBAF and key stakeholders in Nigeria’s entrepreneurship ecosystem, and also help venture capital and companies connect with international companies, Fintechs and other relevant institutions alike. Ambrose-Medebem is a multifaceted international leader with over two decades experience spanning across strategy and performance management, finance, business culture transformation, change, sustainability and corporate affairs. She was appointed Director of Communications, Public Affairs & Sustainable Development for Lafarge Africa Plc (a member of LafargeHolcim Group) in 2016. During her career, she has worked for PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Diageo Plc. Ford Motors and the Ministry of Finance -Youth Enterprise with Innovation in Nigeria (YouWiN) enterprise programme supported by the Department for International Development UK (DFID) and the World Bank.