Dauda Kahutu, popularly known as Rarara, recently released a two-minute video on social media asking lovers of President Muhammadu Buhari to send him N1000 to prove that the president is still loved and Nigerians are solidly behind him. The video, which went viral, has generated mixed reactions from Nigerians as they battle to survive the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic which led to the hike in prices of petrol, electricity, and consumable items. As millions of naira hit Rarara’s bank account, another singer, Adam A. Zango, requested the supporters of former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to sponsor his next album too. Zango, who asked for N500 and above from his targeted audiences, claimed that his new song would bring Atiku Abubakar back to Nigeria to prepare for 2023 elections in order to rescue Nigerians from the difficulties inflicted on them by the current administration. Nigerians thought that was all, but surprisingly, Abubakar Sani, a die-hard supporter of former Kano State Governor, Alhaji Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso, has joined the business. According to Abubakar Sani, his new song will focus on achievements of Kwankwaso. In my opinion, this is nothing but daylight robbery. It is a trick aimed at extorting money from innocent and poor Nigerians. It is unfortunate that the new way of begging by these singers is coming at this trying moment. It is clear that Nigerians are battling the impact of the Coronavirus and are in dire need of assistance from well to do individuals like Rarara, Zango and Sani but regrettably, the reverse is the case. Surprisingly, these singers, who are millionaires, instead of helping the poor, have come up with a new strategy to suck the blood of blind supporters of the said politicians who failed to understand their theory of begging. The fact is that these praise singers are hiding under the shadow of Buhari, Atiku and Kwankwaso to beg. My questions here are: must they conduct integrity and popularity tests of their bosses through extortion of innocent Nigerians? If they were serious, why not conduct online polls or other alternatives that do not involve money? Under normal circumstances, who supposed to pay them for singing these songs? As I wait for answers to the above questions, I challenge Dauda Kahutu Rarara, Adam A. Zango and Abubakar Sani to prove me wrong that their initiative is not a new strategy of begging. Let them declare public the money they got and donate it to charity. In the meantime, I will like to condemn those who preferred tearing and burning N1000 note than contributing it to Rarara. The act is a sign of disrespecting our dear country. Bilyaminu Gambo Kong-kol, Mass Communication Department, Bayero University, Kano