Juventus have earmarked Luis Suarez as the world-class player to spearhead their attack. This Uruguayan will turn 34 this season and has been told by new Barcelona boss Ronald Koeman that he won’t be in his plans. Both Gazzetta dello Sport and Corriere dello Sport report that Suarez and Juventus have reached an agreement over the switch. It is understood that he will take advantage of the Italian government’s growth decree that will allow the forward to save the club almost 50 per cent of his wages in two years. The decree is a package of measures aimed at returning to economic stability after the country dipped into a recession due to the coronavirus pandemic. Measures in place would help lighten the financial load of signing Suarez. The combative forward has reportedly already contacted club chief Pavel Nedved over a transfer after Koeman told him in a short phonecall that he was no longer needed. Pirlo will have spoken to Suarez over the phone and the sell would have been simple, he will be one of a handful of players in the world to have performed alongside both Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo. The transfer landscape has changed significantly for Juventus in the previous few days. The club were originally close to a deal for Roma striker Edin Dzeko but the capital club resisted. They are digging their heels in and it could be to Suarez’s benefit. As it stands, Roma and Juventus are at an impasse but there is a chance an agreement could still be reached. But a move for Suarez could be completed quickly, within a day, should Barcelona release him early, paying him £22million in severance. If Koeman gives the green light to terminating the former Liverpool man’s contract, Pirlo will be eyeing up one of the most dangerous front threes in football. A trio of Ronaldo, Suarez and Paulo Dybala, with Dzeko also a possible replacement, gives Juventus a formidable attacking set-up and much would see them start Serie A as heavy favourites once more to retain their crown.