• Laments governance deficits under APC governments James Sowole in Akure The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday challenged President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure a free and fair election in the forthcoming Edo and Ondo State Governorship elections saying time is up for All Progressives Congress government in Nigeria. Besides, the opposition party decried governance deficits under the government of All Progressives Congress (APC) at the federal and state levels. The National Chairman of the PDP, Mr. Uche Secondus; Sokoto State Governor, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal and his Oyo State counterpart, Mr. Seyi Makinde made this call yesterday at the official inauguration of the party’s rally ahead of the Ondo State governorship election slated for October 10. Among others, the inauguration, where the party flag was presented to the PDP governorship candidate, Mr. Eyitayo Jegede, was also attended by a former governor of Osun State, Chief Olagunsoye Oyinlola and his Ekiti State counterpart, Mr. Ayodele Fayose. For hours, the heart of the state capital stood still, as vehicular and human traffics were temporarily disrupted as party supporters from the 18 local government areas of the state trooped to the venue of the rally. Speaking at the inauguration, Secondus gave copious reasons the electorate should vote out the APC in Ondo State, pointing out failure of the APC governments at the federal and state levels one after the other. Secondus, who said Nigeria was sitting on a keg of gunpowder, said everything including the economy, security system, social services and other things that made life meaningful for Nigerians had collapsed.
He said: “The only thing that is left for President Muhammadu Buhari is to ensure a free and fair election. The only thing that the APC administration relies on because of its failure is to rig election. “The current Governor Akeredolu in Ondo State has failed and he relies on rigging in the coming election. Let me tell you, if you rig the forthcoming election, you shall not escape the wrath of God and the people. “A vote for the PDP next month is a vote for the government of the people by the people and for the people and not a government for Akeredolu and members of his family.” Tambuwal, also Chairman of PDP Governors Forum (PDP-GF) said the APC government had failed in all the promises made to Nigerians. He said: “APC has inflicted pains on Nigerians not only in Ondo State but also all over the country. When APC should give us succour as a result of the COVID-19 Pandemic, the government gave us more pain by increasing electricity tariff and fuel price. “I am therefore calling you to consolidate on the gains of the PDP in the 2019 Election in the state by voting for Jegede and the PDP on October 10 and do not be deterred by blackmail and intimidation,” Tambuwal said. On his part, Makinde said if it was possible for PDP to win in Oyo State, it is also possible in Ondo State. “When we win in Oyo State, PDP was not at the centre, PDP was not in the government in the state, the party was not in government at the local government, but God made it possible because the people made up their minds to end the APC government. “So, it is possible for you to do it in Ondo State. The only thing you need to do is to come out on the day of election and vote for PDP and Eyitayo Jegede. “The election is a special one because it is coming up on a special day. It is an election about freedom for the South West. It has started from Oyo State and it is coming to Ondo State. We have to free ourselves. There will be Sunshine in Ondo State again.” After receiving the flag of the party from Secondus, Jegede said relief would come the way of the people from February 23, 2021 if voted as the governor of the state. Jegede promised that he would give priority to people’s welfare and good time would come back to Ondo State again. According to him, a vote for him and the PDP is a vote for reduction in school fees and resumption of free maternal health for pregnant women and resuscitation of Mother and Child Hospital. He also said that he would do everything possible to ensure economic growth and employment for the youth.