Our Correspondents The leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State, Chief Bode George, has lauded the people of Edo State for rejecting what he described as the “bullion van democracy” of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with victory given to Governor Godwin Obaseki in Saturday’s election. George in a statement said with the victory, “the good people of Edo State have spoken loud and clear. They have spoken without ambiguity, without equivocal expression. They were bold and brave.They rejected the bullion van democracy.They stood against outside interlopers.” He stressed that “the Edo people were firm and committed to the purity of the democratic process. In the end, their will has prevailed. “They have made their choice in the person of Governor Godwin Obaseki who himself had braved all odds and all the dark schemings and intrigues of the undemocratic forces. He has triumphed over what seemed a great hurdle.” He congratulated Obaseki “for this well deserved victory. I congratulate our party managers who pulled through this victory by ensuring that the right things were done at the right time. Obaseki’s Victory Ends Godfatherism in Nigerian Politics, PDP Chieftain A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State, Chief Sunny Onuesoke, has congratulated incumbent Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki over his fresh mandate, consequent on his victory in the weekend governorship election. Onuesoke, while speaking with journalists in Benin yesterday shortly after Governor Obaseki was declared winner of the election, said Obaseki’s victory “signals a new dawn and the ultimate end of godfatherism in Nigeria politics.” The former PDP gubernatorial aspirant in Delta State also applauded the people of Edo State for standing by their Governor to finally put an end godfather to godfatherism in the state. “The victory confirmed that power ultimately belongs to the people and not to some fathom individuals who think they can play God and toy with the will and wishes of the people,” he asserted. Onuesoke maintained that the people of Edo has shown the former Governor of Lagos state, Senator Ahmed Tinubu that Edo state remains Edo state and cannot be likened to Lagos state that has remained under his vice grip for over two decades. Umahi Hails INEC over Transparent Poll Ebonyi State Governor, Mr. David Umahi, has congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki for his re-election at the just concluded governorship election in Edo State. In a statement issued by the Special Assistant to Governor Umahi on Media and Publicity, Mr. Francis Nwaze, the governor observed that, though it was a keenly contested election, Obaseki’s re-election has yet again rekindled hope in the nation’s democracy and the electoral process which has allowed, unhindered, the wishes and aspirations of the people to prevail. Umahi, pointed out that Obaseki’s electoral value and his capacity to deliver democratic dividends, that explains why the Edo people closed ranks and returned him in a landslide victory. Umahi urged the re-elected governor, Obaseki to remember not the former things, but propound approaches for greater Edo State which unarguably underlie his re-election. The governor who had prophesied victory for Obaseki on January 24, 2020 noted that no man can unseat Obaseki for second term. Obaseki’s Victory Triumph of People’s Will, Says Mark Former President of the Senate, Senator David Mark, has described the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki in last Saturday’s gubernatorial poll in Edo state as a triumph of the will of the people. Mark, in a congratulatory message yesterday to Obaseki and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) family, described the victory as freedom for the people and enthronement of democratic culture and practice in the country. According to him, the overwhelming victory of the PDP candidate is a testimony of the people’s endorsement of good governance being demonstrated by the Obaseki administration in the last four years in Edo State. The former Senate helmsman however told the governor to be magnanimous in victory by extending hands of fellowship to his opponent just as he urged him to spread social amenities to all parts of the state irrespective of political differences. He said: “The entire state is your constituency. Demonstrate leadership and magnanimity as always to all. Be steadfast and work hard as always to justify the mandate and trust of the citizens of Edo State”. Jubilation in Kano over Obaseki’s Victory There was jubilation yesterday in Kano among the loyalists of former Governor of Kano State, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso over the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State. Kwankwaso’s supporters jubilated at his Lugard Avenue residence in Kano and Mr. Abba Kabir Yusuf’s office, off Ahmadu Bello Way in Kano. They dance and sang praises to God for the turn of events in Edo State in favour of the PDP. Mr Hashim Sulaiman Dungurawa who spoke with reporters, said the results announced were commendable, noting that with PDP, a new Edo State would emerge. “You see, people are already jubilating immediately the results were announced. Our political leader, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso was there and we all knew how he was so serious towards the party’s victory. We are all optimistic that PDP will take over the country in 2023”. “Democracy is back to action because people were allowed to vote for the party of their choice and we are hoping that will continue in the country.” According to him, “As per as I am concerned, the election clearly showed that Nigerians are tired of APC. The citizens are crying and suffering from their style of governance. We are also confident that in 2023, PDP will win Kano again. Senate Minority Caucus, Ekweremadu Laud Obaseki’s Victory The Senate Minority Caucus and the former Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, have lauded the re-election of Governor Godwin Obaseki in the Saturday’s gubernatorial election in Edo state. The caucus and the ranking senator in their separate reaction to Obaseki’s resounding victory at the poll emphasised that the election result has clearly shown that godfatherism is dead for good as no individual can play God. The Minority Caucus in a statement by the Senate Minority Leader, Senator Eyinnaya Abaribe, stressed that the victory of Obaseki signalled a new dawn and the ultimate end of godfatherism in Nigerian politics. Senator Abaribe who also hailed the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for it’s tenacity and resilience in the face of manifest intimidations, said the victory further confirmed that power ultimately belongs to the people and not to some fanthom individuals who think they can play God and toy with the will and wishes of the people. “Going forward, I believe that the Edo people through their overwhelming endorsement of Governor Obaseki and PDP sent the right signal across, affirming that never again should any political party succumb to the undemocratic machination of some few, who like to play tin-god because of their supposedly rich pocket. In his reaction, the Deputy President of the Senate and a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Campaign Council for Edo State, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, who commended the people of Edo State, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and the security agencies for “rising to the occasion”, described the exercise as a huge relief given what he described as the “dwindling fortunes of the nation’s electoral process in recent years”. He further stated that the Edo governorship election had proved, once again, that no man could effectively play God. Ekweremadu submitted that the Edo poll has shown that the nation can get its electoral process right. It’s a Well-deserved Second Term for Obaseki, Says Emmanuel Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, has congratulated the Governor elect of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki. Emmanuel in his congratulatory message issued yesterday, noted that the PDP governorship candidate was massively and overwhelmingly re-elected by the Edo people for a well-deserved second term in office. The congratulatory message released by the Chief Press Secretary and Senior Special Assistant, Media to the governor, Ekerete Udoh, Governor Emmanuel thanked God for ushering in a peaceful and credible election in Edo State. Drawing similarities to what happened last year in his state, Emmanuel said, “Last year, the good people of Akwa Ibom State rose in unison and said no to godfatherism and the much touted federal might, declaring their fidelity to the supremacy of our Only God in the Affairs of man. “Today, our brothers and sisters in Edo State have replicated the same wholesome faith and belief in God over the boastful exuberance of ordinary mortals by voting to return a leader who best represents their values and ethos; a doer and not a talker. “On behalf of the government and the good people of Akwa Ibom State, I join our brethren in Edo to congratulate our brother, His Excellency, Governor Godwin Obaseki for securing the trust and faith of the good people of Edo State to superintend over the affairs of the state for another four years. Fintiri Urges Obaseki to Write His Name in Gold Adamawa State Governor Hon. Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, has encouraged Governor Godwin Obaseki to write his name in gold as one who changed the politics of Edo State by putting godfatherism to rest. Fintiri said this yesterday in Yola in his congratulating massage to Obaseki, signed by his Chef Press Secretary, Mr. Humwashi Wonosikou He said Godwin Obaseki victory at the poll has put to rest godfatherism and has also changed the political landscape of Edo State. “Governor Obaseki was declared winner and returned elected by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Benin after beating APC’s Ize Iyamu in the Edo September, 19th governorship election according to Governor Fintiri is a victory well deserved given his widespread acceptance across the state,” he said Fintiri further revealed that the September 19 election was an affirmation that has further demonstrated that his election is indeed a true reflection of the wishes of the people of Edo state. Fintiri who is the Vice Chairman of the PDP National Campaign Council therefore urged Governor Obaseki and the PDP to extend a hand of fellowship to the opposition and dedicate himself to re-uniting the people and be the governor to all. Edo Poll Shows Nigeria Has Capacity to Conduct Credible Poll, Says Fayose Former Governor of Ekiti State, Mr. Ayodele’s Fayose, has said the outcome of the Edo gubernatorial election has confirmed that Nigeria can conduct a credible poll, if there is no political interference from those at the helms of affairs. He said with an unbiased Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies, that the country can conduct free, fair and hitch-free poll. Fayose said this in his congratulatory message on Sunday to Governor Godwin Obaseki on his victory over the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Osagie Ize-Iyamu in the Edo governorship election. The statement personally signed by the governor said: “The outcome of Edo State election has shown once again that we can have free, fair and credible elections if those in control of the FG allow INEC and security agencies to do their jobs without interference. “I congratulate Governor Godwin Obaseki and urge him to see this victory as a challenge by the people of Edo State to do more for them. “Most importantly, I wish to remind him that PDP came to his rescue in his hour of political need and he should remain in the party, not minding the pressure that will be mounted on him.” House Minority Hails Obaseki, Commends Edo People The Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, has congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki on his re-election by the people of Edo State. The Minority Leader, in a statement yesterday described Obaseki’s re-election as well-deserving given his sterling performance in developing the state and empowering the people during his first tenure. Elumelu urged Governor Obaseki to continue in providing good governance for the people of Edo state, which was the basis of his incontestable victory in the election. He praised the people of Edo State for the courage they exhibited in coming our en masse not only to vote but also to protect their votes and monitor the process to the end. The lawmaker also applauded the Chairman of the South-south PDP Governors Forum, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for the leadership role he played towards the success of the election. The lawmaker further commended Governor Nyesom Wike, the Chairman of PDP National Campaign Council, Governor Seyi Makinde, as well as other PDP governors, the PDP National Assembly Caucus, leaders, elders and teeming members of the party in Edo state, the South South zone and the nation at large for their roles in upholding a free, fair and credible electoral process in Edo state.