By Deji Elumoye The former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC ), Comrade Timi Frank, has urged Nigerians to remain steadfast and resolute despite the myriad of problems facing the nation.
In a message issued in Abuja on Wednesday to mark the 60th independence anniversary of Nigeria, Frank urged Nigerians to find a way to make themselves happy notwithstanding the harsh economic realities which has been further aggravated by the recent sharp increases in the pump price of fuel and electricity tariffs by an uncaring administration.
He urged Nigerians to remain resolute and steadfast because “tough times never last but tough people do” adding that the country shall yet emerge from this economic darkness into a new dawn of prosperity with adequate security.
Frank noted that life has become increasingly nightmarish and unbearable for the people as virtually every sector of the economy has collapsed under the present administration.
He lamented the rising insecurity situation in the country notwithstanding that a retired General is the President while insisting that the rising cases of killings, rape, kidnapping, road crashes are direct fallouts of the failure of the present administration to proactively secure the lives and property of citizens and embark on necessary infrastructural renewal.
“Nothing salutary can be said of the Buhari’s regime as Military Head of State and even now as a supposed leader in a democracy. Mr. President must therefore use the occasion of Nigeria at 60 to plead for forgiveness and initiate progressive policies that would reunite the nation as an indivisible entity,” Frank said.
“With Nigeria attaining 60 years of nationhood, Buhari’s only legacy that is visible to Nigerians are his divisive tendencies and infliction of unbearable pain, sorrow, tears and hardship on innocent citizens.
“What is there in celebrating empty numbers when the standard of living of an average Nigerian does not portray any modicum of socioeconomic progress, befitting of citizens of a country that has been independent for six decades?”, he said.