By James Sowole No fewer than six persons yesterday sustained varying degree of injuries, while about five vehicles in the campaign trains of both the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were destroyed when supporters of both parties clashed at Oba-Akoko in Akoko South West Local Government Area of Ondo State. Spokespersons of the campaign organisations of the two political parties engaged each other in accusations and counter accusations. The spokesperson of the Akeredolu Campaign Organisation, Mr. Richard Olabode, in a statement, alleged that hoodlums loyal to the PDP governorship candidate, Eyitayo Jegede (SAN), yesterday attacked the convoy of the state Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), at Oba Akoko in Akoko Southwest LGA of the state. Olabode said Akeredolu and the APC campaign train was on the way to Ikare-Akoko in continuation of the local government campaign rally when the PDP struck and attacked the convoy of the campaign train. He alleged that the branded campaign vehicle donated to Akeredolu campaign by Mr. Sola Iji was set ablaze by the PDP hoodlums. The spokesperson said the driver of the vehicle sustained bodily injury and was rushed to the hospital for treatment. Similarly, the Head of Media and Research of Eyitayo Jegede Campaign Organisation, Mr. Samuel Fasua, said it was the thugs in the campaign train of Akeredolu that attacked Jegede team that was already on ground at Oba Akoko area in continuation of their campaign for the October 10, 2020, election. Fasua said no fewer than three vehicles in the convoy of Jegede were badly damaged while Jegede sought refuge inside the palace of Oba Adeniyi Adegoroye, as gunshots were being fired outside.He said: “Curiously, Akeredolu was sighted inside the convoy while the attacks lasted, while police operatives in the location simply looked on in the face of the orgies of madness. “In the last five days too, there have been series of attacks on PDP supporters in Aiyede-Ogbese community in Akure North LGA leading to machete and gun attacks and the burning of at least two houses of PDP members. “These continued attacks on PDP members by Aketi’s political thugs and troops are no doubt threatening the peace of our dear state. “We earnestly call on President Muhammadu Buhari and the Inspector-General of Police (IG) to urgently wade in to save the lives of members of the public who are being prevented by the powers-that-be in Ondo State from belonging to political parties of their choice.”