By Nosa Alekhuogie Enyo Retail and Supply has introduced a secure, automated fleet and fuel management solution called Velox. Velox is a wallet-based payment solution, which offers customers the ability to control their fuel and energy purchases. The new innovation, which was launched during a recent virtual media parley, is accessible to corporates and individuals through a dedicated card or sticker and is specifically designed to bring ease, transparency and control of purchases within Enyo’s products and services portfolio. According to the company, the product has been tailored to fit each customer’s requirements as it offers customizable solutions including when and how payments are made, ability to set consumption and credit limit, as well as monitoring consumption. Giving details of the solution, the Chief Executive Officer of Enyo Retail and Supply, Mr. Abayomi Awobokun, said: “Featuring a ‘Do It Yourself’ portal on the Enyo website, customers can request for Velox by filling a registration form with bio-data, vehicle details, and payment details. Customers will then select the nearest Enyo station from where they would like to pick up their card, which will be available within 24 hours.” Commenting on the launch of Velox, Awobokun, explained that the logic behind Velox was in utilizing technology to transform the downstream petroleum network in Nigeria. According to him, “We want our customers to be in control of the fuel purchasing process and their expenses as simplifying the customer experience is at the heart of our efforts. At Enyo, we will seek channels to improve upon and constantly innovate to ensure overall convenience and satisfaction for our customers across Nigeria. Enyo Retail was established in 2017 as a technology focused fuels retailing company to meet the growing energy needs of Nigeria.”
Corporate Development Lead, Enyo Retail and Supply, Olabanjo Alimi, said: “Velox was conceived out of the need to create a gateway to the Enyo ecosystem of products and services by leveraging a convenient and controlled technological solution. Last year, our pilot scheme which was launched successfully demonstrated the pertinence of this solution and its prospective value to customers. Velox has proven to be a safe, simple and convenient way of managing not only one’s fuel expenses but also purchasing other products and services provided by Enyo fuel stations across Nigeria. It also protects customers’ information and funds from unauthorised access. This is in addition to customer’s PIN number to deliver an extra layer of protection. The Velox system also allows automatic communication between customer’s Velox account and card, the Velox Point of Sale (POS), as well as the dispensing pump for very minimal human intervention in the fueling process, thereby reducing human error and theft.” Speaking further, Alimi however noted that with Velox, Enyo’s customers could now experience a simpler and smoother process with access to all their transactional information along with frequent invoicing and monthly statements either on the Velox platform or emailed to them. “In addition, they are supplied with a comprehensive transaction history that details vehicles fuel consumption and route costs. This details information such as the service station used, date, time of purchase and odometer reading. Most importantly, it provides alerts to any purchases that customers have not pre-approved in their customised selection,” Alimi said. He further explained that customers could select their preferred payment option for Velox wallet funding including bank transfer, USSD, debit card and internet banking. “In addition to the benefits of Velox, customers are able to earn EnyoThankU loyalty points whenever a purchase of Enyo’s product or service is made online or physically. Velox is currently available at designated Enyo Service Stations across twelve states including Lagos, FCT, Ogun among/others,” Alimi added.
As part of its expansion plans, the company also aims to deploy Velox solution across all its service stations in Nigeria.