Ugo Aliogo The private sector, through the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG), the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, and the Africa Initiative for Governance being the funding partner has built and deployed a Nigeria COVID-19 incidence and response tracker and dashboard which was unveiled recently. A statement made available to THISDAY by the NESG said the dashboard primarily presents and projects the resource requirements in all the states of Nigeria to enable governments and donors identify the needs, and gaps that exist in testing, treatment, Isolation, contact tracing and tracking. In his welcome address, the Chairman of the NESG, Mr. Asue Ighodalo, said that the NESG in collaboration with the Africa Initiative for Governance (AIG) designed the COVID-19 Incidence and Response Tracker and Dashboard. He also noted that the dashboard primarily reveals the resource requirements across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to enable respective subnational governments, “alongside the federal government and donors identify needs and gaps that exist in three critical priority areas – testing; treatment and Isolation; and contact tracing and tracking.” Ighodalo explained that the dashboard would be an internet enabled web-based application which can be used on mobile devices; displaying national and state-by-state incidences- infections, recoveries and deaths. According to him, “The Nigeria COVID-19 incidence and response tracker dashboard would display state-by-state resources, a back-end content management system for data entry to feed the front-end of the Dashboard and serve as a collaborative platform for key stakeholders to input and share data on actual and projected resources that can activate a needs assessment for combating the pandemic in Nigeria; while also enhancing the decision-making process in the provision and deployment of resources through a front-end mapping of resource availability, requirements and gaps. The Director of AIG, Mrs. Ofovwe Aig-Imoukhuede revealed that the AIG provides financing and capacity building to support public sector reform initiatives across Nigeria. She stated that the AIG is pleased to have partnered with the NESG and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) towards the development of the Nigeria COVID-19 incidence and response tracker and dashboard. Aig-Imoukhuede said: “This landmark initiative is a demonstration of what the public sector in partnership with the private sector is capable of achieving. COVID-19 is a burning platform calling for change. It is important that we review existing systems and take the opportunity to push forward for change so that we are more resilient and better prepared to handle this crisis and others that may come in future.” The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha remarked that Nigeria has done remarkably well in the fight against COVID19 but must do much better. He stated that with the political will, right investments, strategies and active collaboration between the public and private sector, Nigeria can flatten the curve of the pandemic. The SGF while launching the Nigeria COVID-19 incidence and response tracker and dashboard affirmed that the day’s event underscores the transparency drive of the Presidential Taskforce on COVID19 and the urge to defeat the scourge of the pandemic. The statement added that the COVID-19 incidence and response tracker dashboard is deployed in support of the National COVID-19 Multi-Sectoral Pandemic Response Plan of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 (PTF). The statement maintained that the COVID-19 incidence and response tracker dashboard is designed to provide real-time data to the federal and state governments, private sector, international organisations and other donors that intend to mobilize and provide human and material resources in response to the outbreak of COVID-19 in Nigeria.