by Bennett Oghifo The new Jaguar F-PACE is designed and built to be more luxurious, connected and efficient, the automaker has said. The new Jaguar F-PACE, which is scheduled for launch early in 2021, has an assertive new exterior, beautifully crafted all-new interior, latest generation Pivi Pro infotainment and the choice of in-line four-cylinder engines. Nigerian collectors of the Jaguar machine are sure to book this dream car with Coscharis Motors, the automaker’s sole representive in Nigeria. The new exterior design gives the award-winning F-PACE performance SUV a cleaner, more assured presence, featuring a new sculpted bonnet with a wider power bulge and smoother, more precisely defined surfaces. The new bonnet also contributes to a more striking finish by reducing the number of shutlines on the front of the car. An enlarged grille features Jaguar’s heritage logo-inspired ‘diamond’ detailing, while the side fender vents now feature the iconic Leaper emblem, demonstrating the exceptional attention to detail found right across the vehicle. A new front bumper with redesigned air intakes and dark mesh details visually widen the new F-PACE for a more assured dynamic presence. New super slim all-LED quad headlights with ‘Double J’ Daytime Running Light (DRL) signatures, which are available with optional Pixel LED technology, deliver increased resolution and brightness. With Adaptive Driving Beam capability, which evaluates the road ahead and automatically adapts the high beam light to mask oncoming traffic or traffic signs, the system can create varying light beam patterns by selecting different LED segments to optimise visibility without distracting other drivers. Premium LED technology is fitted as standard across the range and is available with Auto High Beam Assist on SE and HSE models. The technology uses the forward-facing camera to automatically switch between high and low beam, ensuring that oncoming drivers aren’t dazzled. Animated Directional Indicators are also available on all models when fitted as part of additional linked options, and provide heightened sophistication. At the rear, new slimline lights feature Jaguar’s double chicane graphic – first previewed on the all-electric I-PACE – to accentuate the width of the vehicle. The new bumper design and sculpted new tailgate also add visual drama and deliver a more confident appearance. In purposeful R-Dynamic specification, the new F-PACE features a series of distinct design elements for a more performance-focused look, while all models are available with the additional Black Exterior Pack, which delivers an even more dynamic appearance with bespoke elements finished in Gloss Black. All-new, crafted interior The F-PACE has an all-new interior with heightened luxury, enhanced connectivity and greater serenity and refinement. The new cockpit design is bolder, more dynamic and with greater focus on the driver. A new sporty centre console, faster in profile, sweeps up to the instrument panel and incorporates a wireless charger and greater console stowage. At the heart of the new interior is a seamlessly integrated centrally-mounted 11.4-inch curved-glass HD touchscreen in an elegant magnesium alloy casing, which controls the new Pivi Pro infotainment system. Authentic finishes, including open-pore wood veneers and aluminium, feature in beautifully formed shapes such as the upper door insert and full width ‘Piano lid’ that is formed across the width of the instrument panel. Laser-etched mid-line speaker frets and the metallic rotary dial of the JaguarDrive Control epitomise the attention-to-detail. Julian Thomson, Jaguar Design Director, said: “The new F-PACE is dynamic and assertive with an elegant stance on the road – it represents a significant development of Jaguar design language. The heightened luxury and attention to detail inside the F-PACE with seamlessly integrated state-of-the-art technologies ensure both driver and passengers feel a real sense of occasion whenever they get in the vehicle.” The new Drive Selector – just one of the many beautiful details – features an upper section finished with ‘cricket-ball’ stitching, the lower part being made of precision-engineered metal for enhanced tactility. New door casings, featuring a new 360-degree grab handle, provide easier access and increased storage for drinks bottles and other items, while the electric window switches are moved down from the top of the door roll, putting them within easier reach of occupants. New seats feature wider cushioning, new massage functions and enhanced coverage of the heated and cooling areas. An embossed Jaguar Leaper features on all occupant headrests on selected models, while a set of ‘Est.1935 Jaguar Coventry’ upholstery tags highlight the brand’s heritage. A series of advanced technologies ensure the health and wellbeing of all occupants. Cabin Air Ionisation improves interior air quality through Nanoe technology, which removes allergens and unpleasant odours. The system now also features PM2.5 filtration, which captures ultra-fine particles – including PM2.5 particulates – to improve occupant health and wellbeing. The customer activates the system simply by pressing the ‘Purify’ button. Power and performance A next-generation 147kW 2.0-litre four-cylinder Ingenium diesel engine replaces the 132kW version*, while a 2.0-litre four-cylinder Ingenium petrol engine with 184kW and 365Nm completes the 0-100km/h test in 7.3 seconds. Both engines are paired with Jaguar’s eight-speed automatic gearbox, which can be controlled using the steering wheel shift paddles for added driver engagement. All-wheel drive is included as standard and Intelligent Driveline Dynamics provides rear-wheel drive biased performance, with the ability to vary torque to individual axles almost instantly depending on conditions. The latest JaguarDrive Control features Comfort, Eco, Rain-Ice-Snow and Dynamic modes, which can be chosen manually by the driver based on the road conditions. The settings, selected through a new rotary dial next to the all-new Drive Selector, adapt the F-PACE’s steering, transmission, throttle and (when specified) Adaptive Dynamics settings. Auto Vehicle Hold provides added convenience and smoother operation than conventional Automatic Hill Hold. The new technology holds the brakes for an unlimited period of time when stationary on a gradient, gently releasing the brakes only when the driver depresses the accelerator to drive away. Cutting-edge connected technologies The new F-PACE features Jaguar’s advanced Electronic Vehicle Architecture, dubbed EVA 2.0, which supports a range of new technologies to ensure the future-ready vehicle is always connected and always up to date. The latest Pivi Pro infotainment technology is accessed through the all-new 11.4-inch curved glass HD touchscreen. Key benefits include enhanced clarity, the screen is three times brighter and 48% larger than the previous 10-inch screen, and the simplified menu structures allow drivers to access or view up to 90 per cent of common tasks from the homescreen in two taps or less. To help drivers access vital information quickly, new F-PACE also features a new 12.3-inch HD Interactive Driver Display with enhanced graphics and a configurable layout which can show full-screen navigation mapping with turn-by-turn instructions, digital dials, media, contact list or infotainment details. Working in conjunction with the latest Head-up Display technology, new F-PACE gives drivers all the information they need without distraction. The intuitive new infotainment system features Apple CarPlay and Android Auto as standard and allows customers to connect two phones simultaneously via Bluetooth. Wireless device charging with phone signal booster allows occupants to fast charge their smartphone. The system also provides clearer calls through the help of an external aerial. To enable instantaneous start-up, Pivi Pro has a dedicated power source, so is ready to use as soon as customers get behind the wheel. The collection of new convenience technologies includes Software-Over-The-Air (SOTA) capability, which ensures the performance SUV is always using the latest software. The technology means that owners don’t have to visit retailers to receive software updates for the vehicle. Pivi Pro connectivity is provided by the latest embedded dual-sim technology with two LTE modems enabling the system to carry out multiple functions at the same time, such as streaming media and downloading SOTA updates, without compromising performance. The cutting-edge connectivity also ensures minimal interruptions caused by coverage blackspots as it roams across network providers for the strongest signal. Segment-first Active Road Noise Cancellation technology constantly monitors vibrations from the road surface and calculates the opposite phase sound wave needed to remove the noise heard by the occupants. This means quieter noise levels within the cabin for superior refinement and reduced fatigue, commonly associated with prolonged exposure to low-frequency noise. Cabin occupancy is monitored, with the system continuously optimising performance to deliver the best possible experience for everyone. The lightweight technology ensures that vehicle weight and handling characteristics remain unaffected. Engine Noise Cancellation isolates the cabin from unwanted engine noise to further enhance the sense of tranquillity. For enhanced convenience, the second-generation wearable Activity Key can be used to lock, unlock and start the vehicle without the need for the conventional key fob to be present in the vehicle. The rechargeable device incorporates a watch and has a battery life of seven days between charges. The new F-PACE also benefits from the latest generation of driver assistance technology. This includes Clear Exit Monitor, which alerts both front and rear occupants to the presence of an approaching car or cyclist when exiting the vehicle. Adaptive Cruise Control automatically maintains a set distance from the vehicle in front. Jaguar’s latest 3D Surround Camera technology delivers advanced 3D functionality using the latest camera technology to deliver more detail and a choice of real-time viewing when manoeuvring the vehicle. The selection of settings include Junction View, 3D Perspective View, and ClearSight Plan View. Jaguar’s commitment to creating strong and lightweight vehicles, continues with the new F-PACE. The aluminium-intensive architecture uses recycled aluminium from closed-loop manufacturing for greater sustainability and is an important contribution towards Jaguar’s journey to Destination Zero, a world of zero emissions, zero accidents and zero congestion.