Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The newly elected State Working Committee(SWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti State yesterday assumed leadership, with a warning to the state Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, that the party is poised to reclaim the state from the All Progressives Congress(APC) in the 2022 governorship poll. The factional crisis in the party seems to be over with the just concluded congresses. The SWC led by its Chairman, Hon Bisi Kolawole, promised to reach out to Senator Biodun Olujimi and other aggrieved leaders of her faction to unify the party and reinforce its chances in the coming election. Addressing hundreds of party supporters who ushered in the new executive into office at the party’s secretariat at Ajilosun in Ado Ekiti yesterday, Kolawole vowed that the PDP would end what he called “a reign of terror” being allegedly inflicted on the state by the APC in 2022. Kolawole said the people were already disillusioned with alleged empty promises being made by the APC-led government in the state, and are ready to embrace a real change. The former state commissioner said the party was lucky to have assembled a team of experienced politicians and technocrats as members of the SWC, saying they won’t betray the trust reposed in them by party admirers. According to him, “We know the Ekiti people are tired of the APC government, so we shall deliver our people from them in 2022 by the grace of God. Enough is enough for APC. We shall possess our possession and our possession is PDP producing the next governor of the state. “We appreciate your confidence in us, and we shall right all the wrongs. Our party shall reclaim the state and occupy Oke Ayoba. We pray that Fayemi will end his tenure hale and hearty, but 2022 will be the end of APC reign in Ekiti State. “We thank our leader, former Governor Ayodele Fayose, for his support, and we pray that he takes us to the promise land. We pray for long life for him too.” Kolawole said the Ekiti PDP remains solid and indivisible contrary to the insinuation that the party is factionalised as a result of crisis that had trailed the conduct of the ward, local government and state congresses.