Mary Nnah Bschool, Africa’s Pop Culture Academy, has concluded plans to host the 2020
Strategy Bootcamp tagged, ‘Immersive Virtual Experience”, in Lagos. From October 21 to 24, 2020, Bschool will be running a series of live
workshops during the Strategy Bootcamp which is expected to impact
practitioners in advertising, marketing, retail, pop culture and creative sectors. Bschool is a strategy and innovation school set up to provide an unconventional learning system for business, marketing and creative
professionals. It is the “New School” for entrepreneurs, admen, marketers, and
corporate executives. It’s a four-day virtual getaway for senior marketers, brand custodians and business leads, who are planning to hold strategy retreats and to develop business transformation plans as we move closer towards the last quarter of the
year. The course modules include AI Marketing, CX Strategy, Behavioral Economics, Business Model Innovation, Product Design, Cultural Foresight and Trend Codes, Scenario Planning, and Customer Engagement. Organisations looking to send delegates can view the programme schedule on its website. The webinar will be hosted by Frankline Ozekhome, the head of strategy
and digital at Insight Publicis, where he will unpack mega-industry themes,
consumer insights and the dynamics that apply to sectors like Retail and
Ecommerce, Home and Personal Care, FMCG, and Financial services. He will also be sharing business propulsion toolkits and innovation playbooks that will help organisations to successfully navigate the phenomenal changes that have
affected virtually every single industry. The Strategy Bootcamp is a bespoke event designed to help businesses and
brands rebound as future-determining entities that are focused on continually
being viable, sustainable, and admired by employees, customers and competitors. The curriculum, curated by Ozekhome who is also the founder of Bschool, and Dean of Studies at Orange Academy, is premised on creating practicable ideas and executing new experiences that capture top-line and bottom-line growth. Ozekhome is a pop culture maven and is a globally acknowledged expert on
consumer trends and cultural intelligence. He has led multidisciplinary teams
through the development of award-winning campaigns, product design initiatives
and innovation platforms for multinationals, SMEs and start-ups. Over the years, he has worked with brands as diverse as Visa, Heineken, Google, Emirates, Tecno Mobile, Pepsi, MTN, Dangote, Vitafoam, Smile, Airtel and Samsung. Bschool was founded in 2017 and already boasts an alumni network of 500+ students from varied backgrounds, disciplines and organisations.