*Hails Buhari, INEC, security agencies for peaceful, credible poll By Adibe Emenyonu The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has hailed Edo people and supporters of his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), for their display of immense courage and support in the face of threats, intimidation and brutalisation as he emerged victorious in Saturday’s gubernatorial election in the state. The governor in his appreciation message in Benin City on Sunday also saluted President Muhammadu Buhari, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies and other stakeholders who participated in the conduct of the gubernatorial election for ensuring a free, peaceful and credible poll in the state. Obaseki said: “The Great People of Edo State have spoken. They have spoken loud and clear. We thank God Almighty and give him all the glory for this victory. “Thank you, President Muhammadu Buhari, for defending our democracy and allowing the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies to perform their constitutional functions without interference. “INEC and the security services have shown to Nigerians and the world that they are capable of conducting free and credible elections.” The governor continued: “Words fail me in saluting our teeming supporters who displayed immense courage in the face of threats, intimidation and brutalization. The collective will of Edo people made it possible for this triumph over godfatherism. “I am eternally grateful to my party the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and my brother governors not only for giving me the umbrella during my political storm but for the hard work which has brought me back to office. “Our success has reinforced my belief that there is nothing we cannot achieve as a people if we pull forces together and collectively call on God for support.” “I reiterate that working with my Deputy, Rt. Hon. Philip Shaibu, we are committed to making Edo Great Again. Thank you for your support,” he added.