By James Sowole The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governorship Candidate in October 10, 2020 Election in Ondo State, Mr. Eyitayo Jegede SAN has said that the people of Ondo State were ready to emulate the people of Edo State to reject the poor leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led administration in the Sunshine State. Jegede, who expressed personal joy at the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki in Saturday’s election in Edo State, said the result of the election was a manifestation of the people’s conviction that the PDP is the credible alternative, that can provide good governace for the people. The PDP candidate in a statement, said Obaseki’s victory symbolised Nigerians’ disenchantment with the ensuing poor leadership under the APC and their conviction that a PDP government is the credible alternative. He said the PDP is a political party that intitutionalises inclusive democracy, which gives equal opportunities to party members, as against the dominance of a cabal of political godfathers. “Governor Obaseki is now vindicated, having taken a bold step in coming over to the PDP, a political party that cherishes the masses; that is grassroots-oriented, and that does not pander to godfatherism. “We rejoice with him and the government and good people of Edo State, for this unequivocal rejection of the slave masters, through the sanctity of the vote,” he said. The PDP candidate also said, like their Edo neighbours, voters in Ondo State were fully prepared to exercise their inalienable right to determining who governs the state, come October 10, this year. “What has taken place in Edo thus beckons on our good people of Ondo State, to bear their destiny in their hands, by similarly rejecting these feudal lords posing as democratic leaders, and elect the PDP in the October 10 governorship election. “Our people should, in unison, make their choice known through the coming election, that they choose good governance and reject bad leadership,” he admonished. Jegede thus called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the relevant security agencies to discharge their duties creditably, for the good of our democracy.