The Deputy Governor of Ondo State and governorship candidate of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Hon. Agboola Ajayi, has berated Governor Rotimi Akeredolu for describing him as a betrayal, neophyte and a nincompoop. Ajayi while responding to Akeredolu in a statement issued yesterday by his Media Adviser, Allen Sowore in Akure, said Akeredolu’s reckless gaffe is a continuation of his fruitless and sterile efforts to demean the constitutionally established office of the Deputy Governor and his person. “The Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi is not surprised at this latest castigation of his person by Mr. Governor. “This has been the favourite tactics of Akeredolu and now that he’s frustrated by the people’s obvious rejection of his re-election bid, it’s expected that he would not desist on the road to infamy and perfidy. “Akeredolu is notorious for having a loose tongue, fuelled most times by Dutch courage. His verbal attacks on notable leaders, particularly whenever they disagree with his clannish myopic world view are well established. “Therefore, it is in his character to hurl verbal grenades which are usually undignifying of his age, person, professional calling and the political office he currently occupies. “Again, Akeredolu’s macabre dance of shame on national television on Monday, September 7, 2020, where he called the deputy a “neophyte” and other unprintable names vindicates the deputy governor’s assessment of the governor as a man without character; a certified and egomaniac misfit, whom the gods have promoted above his character and capacity to govern a decent state like Ondo. “Like the biblical Saul, Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN), has become intimidated, angry and envious of the past achievements, present acceptance and the daily rising profile of the deputy governor as the October 10 governorship election approaches. “The Deputy Governor as a thorough bred and cultured person/politician, who has climbed through the political ladder: has refrained himself from joining issues with Governor Akeredolu who must not drag himself or who has already dragged himself into political mud because of the signal he is already receiving as a total rejection from the masses of Ondo State, due to his style of nepotic, parochial and family claimed government, as their private estate.