Hammed Shittu in Ilorin The Chairman of the Chrome Group, Sir Emeka Offor, has promised that his foundation, Emeka Offor Foundation will donate 100 bed sets and accessories to 21 Universities Teaching Hospitals in the country to assist them accelerate health care delivery of indigent patients in the affected hospitals. He said the donation would also include medical equipment, medicines, predicaments and anti-hypertensive drugs.
Offor, who set up the Sir Emeka Offor Foundation (SEOF) disclosed this in Ilorin, Kwara State capital yesterday during the official presentation of 100 bed sets and accessories to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital Complex (UITHC), Ilorin. Represented at the event by his Chief of Staff, AIG Chris Ezike (Rtd.), Sir Offor said that the gesture was meant to reduce health challenges and to assist the less-privileged people in the society to have access to good health care delivery. He said Emeka Offor Foundation stands on the tripod of health and human service, educational development and empowerment, the vision which he said the foundation has been achieving.
According to him, “We conceive the idea to be able to mitigate the challenges of our time. Covid-19 took the world by the storm so we will continue to take decisions that would ameliorate the sufferings of the people”. He said that, “This is our payback time, because almighty God made us from nothing to become something in life ”
Offor added that the donation was part of the foundation’s gesture to add values to the health care system in the country.
He said, “We know that health is wealth, if you have a healthy population the statistical index is that you are more likely to have a productive population. According to him, the items, which he said are of high quality, were produced in Nigeria to encourage local production, stressing that the materials would not have arrived Nigeria until 2021 had it been that they were imported from overseas. “The development of local content in the donation is amazing. We are glad to have partnered with the Kaduna Furniture and Carpet Company Limited who are the people that produced these beds and we are grateful to them.” He stressed that the foundation had June this year donated drugs worth several millions of naira to the UITH in order to complement Federal Government efforts at addressing health system challenges in the country.
In his remarks, the Chief Medical Director of UITHC, Professor A. D Yusuf lauded the foundation efforts at bringing new lease of life to indigents people in the country. He said that, “the foundation has sometimes June this year donated drugs and dressings to our hospital that we have been using to bring health care delivery to the people of the state and other neighbouring states “.
Yusuf added that the gesture has further confirmed the fact that the foundation always rises to the need of the people. He, however, assured the foundation that, the bed sets would be used to benefit the patients in the hospital