A fast growing e-hailing startup, Jetride, has affordable cheap charges for both riders and commuters within its area of coverage in Lagos, Ibadan and Abuja. In a press statement signed by the Head Customer Service, Mercy Imabong, the company said it hopes to make corporate commuting through virtual means affordable for commuters and more profitable for drivers. “Jetride is a mobile app for booking a car. The aim and objective is to make life easy for driver partners, that is people who own their vehicle and wish to earn more money using their vehicle for e-hailing services. “Jetride was developed to make the drivers earn more while riders pay less, thereby eliminating preference to drivers alone or riders alone, but, instead, having both parties at heart, which will eliminate fraudulent activities carried out by drivers and also fraud from riders.
“Currently, our commission for our driver partner is a fixed rate of N50 notwithstanding the amount you make on a trip. We are the only app that takes a flat rate commission from drivers after every completed trip, what this means is that when other apps charge N5,000 from point A to point B and they take their commission, in which some take 25% or 20%, Jetride will charge the riider N4,500 for the same distance and time and then take its N50 commission, leaving the driver with N4,450 compared to other platform that gives their drivers N3750 or N4,000. At the same time, instead of the riders paying N5,000, they pay lesser for the same service even with a happier driver. “This is so because we want drivers to be financially stable and as well make the customer happier. We have partnered with Ottoxpress service centre in major Total fuel stations across Lagos to conduct our vehicle inspection. “We are known for transparency and consistency. We will always ensure driver partners get the best of our services, as we also ensure they get paid their inapp payment twice in a week. “We also offer life insurance for our riders on every trip. We are operational in Lagos, Ibadan and Abuja. We have a capacity of over 2,000 drivers across all three cities in Nigeria. We also provide our driver partners with monthly HMO. “The Jetride app has a lot of unique features for both riders and driver partners. On the rider app, you can book up to three different rides simultaneously to either the same location or different locations. You also get to see the price estimate for any trip before starting it. The app allows for riders to share their ETA (Estimated time of Arrival) through WhatsApp, SMS, mails and other social platforms. ” There’s also provisions for riders to add two emergency contact that we can reach incase an incident occurs. On the drivers app, they get to see the price estimate as well. They see what kind of payment method the rider is using, that is, if it is cash or wallet payment. He also gets to see the destination of the rider. “We are very keen on ensuring the safety of both riders and driver partners. Our response time to any emergency call is three hours. We have an 18-hour standby customer support to resolve any issues. Our trips are afffordable and we offer no surge pricing. No surge pricing means that on the app, there is never surge. Surge is a time or period where there are lots of requests,” she said. Highlighting the aims and objectives of the company, Imaobong explained that “Jetride seeks to create a safe and secure transportation system, using technology and also create job opportunities, multiple streams of income to the average Nigerian. Our goal is to become Africa’s Number 1 ride hailing platform across Africa.” Recall that Jetride was developed in 2017 with a prototype application, and after a thorough market survey, the main app was launched in February, 2019.