He has been a regular for Brendan Rodgers’ men this season, but now faces a spell on the sidelines through injury Leicester City Manager Brendan Rodgers has revealed that Nigeria international Wilfred Ndidi will undergo surgery today.
Ndidi suffered an abductor injury as the Foxes thumped Burnley in a Premier League outing on Sunday. He was in action from start to finish as the Clarets bowed 4-2 at the King Power Stadium but a scan by club’s medical team disclosed that the midfielder’s injury would require surgery. “That (surgery) will take probably place tomorrow morning,” Rodgers said ahead of Sunday’s fixture with Manchester City.
“It’s just unfortunate, it’s come right off the bone, so he’s going to be up to 12 weeks we think. He’s a huge player for us. “It’s something that showed his mentality against Burnley because he felt it. Towards the end of last season, he felt some pain there and he felt it late on in the Burnley game. “I’m sure he’ll make a really good recovery and we’ll welcome him back when he comes back, but there’s no doubt he’s a miss.”
Although the Foxes will be missing the qualities of the ex-Genk man, the Northern Irishman has backed others to step in.
“We have players capable of stepping in. Papy Mendy signed a new contract in the summer and has started the season very well,” he continued.
“Hamza Choudhury was excellent against Arsenal, he really covered the ground and was defensively very good, so we have enough cover in that position.” Before his injury, Ndidi had been drafted to the central defence so far in the 2020-21 campaign following the unavailability of Wes Morgan, Jonny Evans and Filip Benkovic. However, Rodgers claims Evans’ thigh injury has been cleared in time and could feature against Pep Guardiola’s team at the Etihad Stadium.
“He’s fine. He’s trained this last numbers of days, so he’s available,” he added. “He’s had a good couple of weeks and I think, for most players, they’re not going to be 100 per cent.
“I’d still have Jonny Evans at 80 per cent because he’s such a quality player.”
With this, the Super Eagles star could be ruled out of action between six to 12 weeks.