Deji Elumoye in Abuja The Senate on Wednesday resolved to debate the report of the 2021-2023 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper (MTEF/FSP) presented to it at plenary.
This is just as the Petroleum Industry Bill sent to the National Assembly on Tuesday by President Muhammadu Buhari passed through first reading at Senate plenary.
The Senate decision to discuss the MTEF/FSP document next week was sequel to the presentation of the report of the Joint Committee on Finance and National Planning and Economic Affairs on the 2021-2023 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper.
The report which was presented during plenary was laid by the Chairman of the Joint committee, Senator Olamilekan Adeola.
President of the Senate, Dr Ahmad Lawan, thereafter directed the Committee on Rules and Business to ensure that all Senators get copies of the MTEF/FSP report before the debate next week.
Also at Wednesday’s plenary, the Petroleum Industry Bill passed through first reading.
The Senate Leader, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi, presented the Executive bill after which the Senate President read the bill for the first time.
Two Senators of the opposition Peoples’ Democratic Party on Wednesday commended President Buhari for his unique approach to governance.
The Senators who took their turns to speak during plenary, commended Buhari’s leadership style for prioritizing the interest of Nigerians over partisanship.
Rising under Order 43 of the Senate standing rules, the Deputy Minority Leader, Senator Emmanuel Bwacha (Taraba South) praised Buhari for commencing the construction of Ibbi bridge in his constituency.
He stated that his entire constituency had written a letter of appreciation commending President Buhari for a promise kept.
According to him, the resuscitated project which connects Taraba with Plateau State “is a dream come true” for the people of Taraba South Senatorial District.
“We are very happy and want to extend our appreciation to President Buhari by presenting this letter on behalf of my constituents,” Bwacha said.
Another Senator Matthew Urhogide (Edo South) was filled with praise for President Buhari over his decision to ensure transparency in the conduct of the governorship election in Edo State.
According to him, the outcome of the recent governorship election signals the return of the country’s electoral process to the path of transparency and fairness.
His words,: “I want to put on record, that the people of Edo State wish to thank Mr. President for making INEC and the Police to discharge their duties without fear or favour.
“This is why I’m coming from the Senate, to say it openly and clearly, that what Mr. President did to ensure free and fair election on the 19th of September in Edo State, gives hope to this country.
“I want to tell the Senate that we are not ashamed, even though we are in the opposition to commend Mr. President.I want to commend some of the Institutions like INEC that discharged their duties to the best of their ability, by ensuring that the will of the people prevailed in that election.
“The Inspector General of Police whom we met, promised that the Nigeria Police will carry out their duties fairly, and indeed they did that. INEC promised fairness to all, and they did that, from when the votes were cast at the polling units to collation centres, and we found out that they did the correct thing,” Urhogide said.
In his remarks, the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan said, “Today is a very good day for democracy in Nigeria.
“Even though some of our colleagues here are in the opposition, the two Distinguished Senators who spoke, Senator Matthew Uroghide and the Deputy Minority Leader, eulogized the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC administration, and they have very solid grounds for doing so, and this is how it should be.
“I want to congratulate the PDP and people of Edo State for winning the election. We look forward to October, when the APC would do the same here, and congratulate the President, the IGP and everybody for free and fair elections in Ondo. And I hope that the opposition will not see that election as compromised,” Lawan added.