David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka A group of Anambra State indigenes, including the senator representing Anambra South senatorial zone, Senator Ifeanyi Ubah, Chairman of Ibeto Group, Chief Cletus Ibeto, Chairman of Oranto Petroleum, Prince Arthur Eze and 340 others have built and donated a fully equipped medical centre to the state. The facility which was constructed under the name of Anambra Progressives Development Union, made up of prominent Anambra indigenes, has Ubah as its convener. Speaking during the inauguration of the facility at the weekend, Senator Ubah expressed happiness that the dream came to past, adding that the facility was a world-class medical centre capable of handling cases that would ordinarily require overseas trips. The centre he said would also serve as an isolation centre for COVID-19 patients. We are thankful to all who donated towards this laudable project. It is not easy for people to believe in you and also commit their hard earned money to a project when you call for it. “We did this because Anambra people have agreed that we will not sit back and wait for government to provide everything. We will not wait for government to do the things we know we can do. “This group is apolitical, and within the group there are a lot of people who are even eyeing the governorship seat of Anambra State, but once we set out minds to achieving something, we will do it, without minding political differences. “We plan to build a medical centre like this in all the three geo-political zones of the state. The one we are building in Awka is even bigger, and that will serve the Central senatorial zone and from there we will move to the Northern zone, while this one situated here in Nnewi will serve the Southern zone. “The progress of Anambra State should not be tied to government alone. If other states can adopt this, individuals will do a lot of work for the society, without waiting for government.” Ubah lamented that he suffered lots of criticisms when the project started, as many said he planned to use the donations to fund his governorship ambition. He added that besides the three medical centres, the group plans to build an industrial layout called; Anambra Progressives Industrial Layout, where its members across Nigeria and the diaspora will bring back part of their investments to build industries that will provide jobs for the youths. Grand patron of the union, Chief Cletus Ibeto in his remark said, “I believe that provision of essential infrastructure should not be left to government alone. Any group of people who are capable should be encouraged to do their best. “I warmly salute the Anambra Progressives for building this edifice which houses a world-class medical centre, and also for the management of COVID-19 which is the worst enemy of humanity today.” The event was attended by Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, who was represented by the Chairman Senate Committee on Health, Senator Yahaya Ibrahim, Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire who was represented by the Chief Medical Director of Nnamdi Azikiwe University Teaching Hospital, Dr. Obinna and the Director General of National Centre for Disease Control, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu.