Suspension is illegal, says Ojudu Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has imposed sanctions on the Special Adviser on Political Matters to the President, Senator Babafemi Ojudu and 10 other chieftains of the party in the state. Ojudu and the 10 other members were slammed with indefinite suspension over alleged disobedience, following their failure to withdraw the case they instituted against the party as directed by the National Executive Council (NEC) of the party. The NEC had in its meeting of June 25, 2020, which was attended by President Muhammadu Buhari, governors and other chieftains directed that all cases pending in courts should be withdrawn for speedy resolution of internal crises in the party. In a statement issued yesterday by the party’s state Publicity Secretary, Mr. Ade Ajayi, in Ado Ekiti, APC said the disciplinary action was taken against Ojudu and others, for defying the party’s NEC. Others who were suspended alongside Ojudu include: Mr. Ayo Ajibade, Hon. Oyetunde Ojo, Hon. Femi Adeleye, Bunmi Ogunleye, Akin Akomolafe, Bamigboye Adegoroye, Wole Oluyede, Olusoga Owoeye, Dele Afolabi, and Toyin Oluwasola. “The State Executive Council of the Ekiti State chapter of APC has approved indefinite suspension of the following members with immediate effect from September 23, 2020. “The suspension is based on the recommendation of the investigative/disciplinary committee inaugurated by SEC to investigate the disobedience of certain members to the directive of NEC of June 25, 2020, which directed members of the party not to institute any court action and to withdraw existing cases in courts. “The decision of SEC has been communicated to the caretaker/extra ordinary convention planning committee of the party”. But responding, Ojudu said: “Let it be said that the only organ of the party that can try and suspend a member is the ward. What they have done is clearly illegal. “I remain a member of APC and a committed one at that. I am not like them, who are traitors who claim to be APC and go and work for PDP in Oyo and Edo”. Ojudu and his allies, who were opposed to Governor Kayode Fayemi, had instituted a case against the constitution of the State Working Committee chaired by Mr. Paul Omotoso .