The Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria (APBN) has endorsed the National Real Estate TV programme, powered by a real estate guru, Meckson Innocent Okoro. The endorsement ceremony took place yesterday, during APBN quarterly board meeting sponsored and hosted by the President of Pharmaceutical Society of Nigerian, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa MFR on behalf of PSN at the PSN National Secretariat at Anthony Village, Ikeja area of Lagos State. At the meeting, the umbrella professional body resolved to work closely with the government at all levels in order to transform the image of Nigeria to a globally acceptable standard that would positively impact on every Nigerian in both at home and abroad, noting that APBN is properly well constituted as it has both psychological and mental attitude in view of the training of her membership to actualise this. The President of the association, Engr. Olumuyiwa Ajibola, past president of Nigerian Society of Engineers and the board of the APBN which comprises the presidents of all professional bodies in the country, adopted Okoro, the real estate professional who doubles as the Executive Producer of the TV programme and Director of Publicity for the professional body. The gathering heralded a formal endorsement of the National Real Estate Today programme as the most ambitious professionally focused advocacy vehicle that would impact positively on both the government, corporate institutions, professional bodies and the Nigerian public. APBN commended Okoro over what it described as ‘visionary leadership’ in his creative advocacy and courageous publicity delivery on real estate and also on other pertinent endeavours of national discourse. In the words of the President of the APBN, “Okoro has served the APBN in the capacity of Publicity Secretary for two years and also Financial Secretary of APBN for another two years. From every indication, Dr Chief M.I. Okoro sacrificed for APBN in the past, therefore his reappointment as Corporate Image Maker and Director of Publicity for APBN is a manifestation of putting the round peg in the round hole. Dr. Chief M l Okoro is a Fellow of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers, Fellow of the Institute of Directors Nigeria as well as Fellow, Society of Construction Industry Arbitrators. No doubt, his choice and endorsement by APBN will bring the image and activities of APBN to the limelight.” APBN further resolved to transform Nigerian from the status of a third world country into a first class one capable of competing with other nations of the world in keeping with Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa MFR ideal for a new Nigeria, with the cooperation and partnership with the Federal Government of Nigeria. APBN wondered what went wrong with Nigerian as a nation because Nigeria is matching backwards while other nations match forward. We have resolved that the only way Nigeria could be salvaged as a nation is only if the political class humbles themselves and work in partnership with the professional class which the APBN represents. There is no how any nation of the world could develop and fend for her citizenry without a total committment of the nation’s professionals. Therefore, the duty Dr,Chief M. l. Okoro has now as the APBN external immage Maker and Director of Publicity is to fashion out the most ideal way to ensure that the government at all levels and APBN work together as the nation’s development partners to make Nigeria a better place to live in and at the same time reduce the brain drain which Nigeria surfers presently due to very poor living Standard. The highpoint of the event was the partnership the APBN entered with the National Real Estate TV programme in view of calling for immediate review of the present National Housing Policy of the Federal Government to conform with the present realities on ground thrown, especially as occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic. Both parties agreed that land and housing are the most critical factors of production in any country of the world, therefore the new proposed Housing Policy in view must be such that would meets the expectations of every Nigerian capable of transforming the country’s economy. Okoro, however, seized the opportunity to engage the president of APBN and other presidents of member bodies of the APBN in a special documentary to set agenda for the review of the National Housing Policy of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which he hinted will be televised all over the country to celebrate Nigeria at 60, come October 2020.
The documentary, according to the ace entrepreneur, will run throughout the month of October, weekly on televisions. It was also resolved that all roads will lead to Ibadan, Oyo State capital, on September 23, 2020 on a day the new president of APBN, Surv. Akin Oyegbola, will be installed. Oyegbola is also a former president of Nigerian Institution of Surveyors (NIS). “We have no doubt that Surv. Akin Oyegbola will take APBN to the next level of achievement particularly in creating an enduring partnership between the Federal Government of Nigerian and APBN.
“In appreciation of his recognition and endorsement, Okoro promised to create at least some minutes of airtime weekly on his TV platform to propagate the affairs of APBN under a segment that will be called ‘APBN Professional Angle’.
“This will bring the APBN closer to both the government at all levels and the Nigerian public, while other media platforms would also be harnessed to effectively market APBN both in Nigeria and overseas,” said Okoro.