The Chief Executive Officer of ISG & Partners, Mr Steven Tuinstra, has expressed the readiness and commitment of his organisation to compliment the effort of African leaders in ensuring economic growth and to halt poverty advancement on the continent. Tuinstra believes that with the enormous resources in Africa and the capacity of its citizens, the continent only requires partnership from development oriented organization to maximize the potential. The ISG & Partners CEO noted that most African leaders were adequately prepared to change the fortunes of their various countries but were limited in financing to actualize their objectives. He said having lived in Africa for no less than two decades, he can confidently declare that the leaders were indeed focussed and are willing to improve on the economy of their nations. Speaking through ISG’s Director of Media, Moses Owopade, Tuinstra promised that ISG & Partners across the world will extend their financial capacity to improve the economic growth on the continent. According to the ISG & Partners CEO, “to create economic growth we have to start with the infrastructure such as transport and energy.
”For example 600 million people in Africa still have no access to electricity. Investing in health care makes no sense at all as long as the ordinary people do not have the money to use it. The people who can afford it go abroad” According to him, the Chinese government has lifted 800 million people out of poverty in 10 years. ”We can also make this happen in Africa. As a direct result of infrastructure development, entrepreneurs have the opportunity to start a new business and need staff to do so. On this way you will create job in Africa so that the ordinary people can also go to the hospital when they have health complaints, and then the time is also right to invest in health care” Tuinstra during a meeting at ISG & Partners office Togo identified quality power supply, good roads, functional rail way services and effective airports as areas that can expedite economic advancement. He said good railway services will enhance cheap and good movement of both goods and services on the continent, even as he noted that Africa has got quality people, good climatic condition and education that can improve and increase wealth on the continent.
The ISG & Partners boss also stressed that the need for young Africans to immigrate to other continents will diminish when they can find a good job with prospects in their own country.