Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, a member of the Standard Bank Group, has called for applications for the maiden edition of its 2020 scholarship
programme. The programme which kicked-off on September 1, is aimed at encouraging hard work and academic excellence among Nigerian undergraduates. It is open to students who participated in the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and have a minimum score of 200. They must have also gained admission into any of the tertiary institutions.
The scholarship, valued at N40 million, would be spread across four years and disbursed in tranches of N100,000 per academic year. The Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, Dr. Demola Sogunle, said subsequent disbursement of the funds would be based on the maintenance of at least second class upper grade and good conduct of the student as referenced by the university. “The organisation recognises the importance and impact of education in the life of every Nigerian youth. Education empowers and encourages the youths to prepare for the future while also confronting challenges. Education is a panacea for growth and enduring development of any nation or organisation,” he said. He reiterated that apart from making deliberate efforts to cushion the effect of the economic hardship caused by the pandemic on parents and guardians, the Stanbic IBTC 2020 scholarship programme would also seek to reward exceptional candidates who demonstrate academic excellence and good character. While assuring members of the public of the organisation’s commitment to the development of Nigerian youths, Sogunle said, “over the years, we have demonstrated our obligation to the future leaders through the various plans and programmes geared towards supporting their dreams and aspirations. One of such programmes is the annual Stanbic IBTC Youth Leadership Series (YLS), which engages Nigerian youth on how to explore their innate potentials to become better business leaders.”
Upon the close of entries and completion of the scholarship process, 100 successful applicants will be offered their scholarship letters.