Mary Nnah Last Friday, Olori Boye-Ajayi officially launched her book ‘Borderless Trade’, during which she also launched the Export Community Group and the Borderless Trade Impact
Investment Fund. The Export Community Group was set up to help guide entrepreneurs who are set to venture into exporting, while the 2 N2 million Borderless Trade Impact Investment Fund was set up in partnership with O.B.A and Viniko Group to help support SME’s looking to expand their export business or start the business of exporting. Due to the COVID-19 crowd restriction, the book launch was a virtual one and was viewed live on Youtube and Zoom, with few invited guests at the venue. Deputy Director, Corporate Services, Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Babatunde Faleke who gave the keynote address, spoke extensively on the dangers of not exporting. “The danger of not exporting is that we will be a nation that just consumes everything”, he said. The second speaker, CEO XPT Logistics and Chairman NACCIMMA Export Group, Kola Awe spoke elaborately on the export industry. While advising business owners, he said “don’t wait for competition to push you out of the country before you think of exporting”. Economist, Corporate Executive and Author, Chinwe Egwim who discussed the topic, “Borderless Trade: The Economist’s perspective”, challenged entrepreneurs, saying; “Diversify your revenue source by plugging into an export value chain”. During her speech, Olori Boye-Ajayi said, “I have written this book because I believe it is time for small businesses to wake up, think differently and package their products and services to the global market. No one will build your business for you, it’s in your hand.” The author is an experienced Business Strategist and Export Trading Consultant. She is currently the Founder and Chief Operating Officer at The Katie Wang Company, a growing global fashion trading company with operations in the U.K., Europe, Australia and the US. The book, “Borderless Trade: A Step by Step Guide to Exporting Your Product” is a guide that has been tailored to small businesses which may not have the resources or
the capacity to approach exporting in the same way a larger business might. This guide will assist budding export merchants to prepare and build capacity for the export journey. The Borderless Trade book is available in major online and physical bookshops.