By Onungwe Obe Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) carefully selected its candidates for the October 31 Central and West senatorial districts bye-election. Diri stated this at the weekend after his predecessor, Seriake Dickson, and the immediate-past state Chairman of the party, Pastor Moses Cleopas, emerged as candidates for the Bayelsa West and Central senatorial districts respectively. A statement issued by his acting Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, said the governor lauded the transparent and peaceful conduct of the primary elections held in Yenagoa and Sagbama in the state. Speaking to journalists at the Dr. Gabriel Okara Cultural Centre in Yenagoa, where the Central district primary election was held, Diri said he was satisfied with the process, and commended the aspirants and delegates for their orderly conduct throughout the exercise. He called on members of the party to close ranks and work for the success of its candidates in the senatorial bye-elections, as he expressed the confidence that the PDP would emerge victorious in both elections. According to him, “You will attest to the fact that the primaries were very orderly, transparent and fair. I am very sure that everybody is satisfied with the conduct. PDP is always throwing up the best candidates. “You can also agree with me that in PDP, we carefully select and nominate our candidates. You can see the difference between the candidates of the PDP and any other party.” While congratulating Dickson and Cleopas, he described them as the perfect choice to emerge as candidates. “We are presenting our best in the election. The former governor is highly experienced in legislature and running of the executive arm. He is a lawyer too.” “Our former chairman is a good party man with oratory power and great leadership skill. They will be good representatives in the Senate and strong voice for Bayelsa State and the Ijaw nation. I call on our people to support these great men in the election,” Diri said.