Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja The military has commenced the construction of a base for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) and other air assets in the North-east as part of efforts to deal with the security challenges in the North-east and the entire country.
This was coming as troops killed five insurgents in Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State. The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) said, in a statement by its Director of Public Relation, Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, that with the construction of the infrastructure for a newly-established unit, the 203 Combat Reconnaissance Group (203 CRG) in Gombe State, would serve as the base for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) and other air assets. The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, said in Gombe that the project would bring new capabilities to NAF’s operations thereby further enhancing its ability to contain threats to the nation and its citizens. Abubakar said in response to the security imperatives in the North-east, NAF had expanded its facilities at the Headquarters of the Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole in Maiduguri, Borno State, as well as at NAF Base in Yola, Adamawa State, while a unit had been established in Damaturu, Yobe State. “These new units and expansions, coupled with others carried out across the country, have undoubtedly, enhanced the capacity of NAF to ensure that Nigeria is secured and our citizens are able to pursue their legitimate aspirations without fear,” he added. On the clash with insurgents in Borno State, an update issued by the Coordinator of the Directorate of Defence Media Operations (DDMO), Maj. Gen. John Enenche, said in continuation of the aggressive clearance operation to stamp out insurgents and other criminal elements from the North-east, troops of Operation Lafiya Dole killed five insurgents in Gwoza. He said the troops, acting on credible intelligence on the activities of BHT/ISWAP terrorists at Hamdaga Makaranta town in Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State, troops of 192 Battalion supported by the Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole raided the location. “The gallant troops overwhelmed them killing five, while others escaped with gunshots wounds. Troops also cleared nine identified isolated BHT/ISWAP structures and farmlands in the area.
“Furthermore, troops successfully rescued seven kidnapped victims comprising two females and five children. Currently, the gallant troops have dominated the area with aggressive patrols,” it said.