Duro Ikhazuagbe with agency report Delta State-born Nigerian heavyweight boxer, Efe Ajagba, is unfazed by the achievements of his compatriot, Anthony Joshua who is the undisputed champion of the category. Ajagba, 26, who turned pro shortly after failing to medal at the boxing event of the last Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil four years ago, told Sky Sports yesterday that he has what it takes to beat the Nigerian-born British heavyweight champion. Ajagba , who is unbeaten in 13 professional fights is rated among best heavyweight prospects in the world. “The people would support Joshua because he is the heavyweight champ,” Ajagba told Sky Sports. “Skill would beat Joshua, not power,” said the undefeated Ajagba. “Me and Joshua both have the power. But skills control the power..I have more skills.” Interestingly, Ajagba who failed at the Olympic where Joshua won a gold medal at the London 2012 Games, insisted he knows the secret of the Sagamu-born British boxer. “The best weapon of Joshua is the left hook and right uppercut. He doesn’t have a good jab,” stressed Ajagba who was Nigeria’s only boxing representative at the 2016 Olympics and was eliminated by Ivan Dychko of Kazakhstan. He however admitted to respect the heavyweight champion. “I respect him. He is the heavyweight champion. I respect everything about him – his talent and his potential. He is a humble guy. “People are saying that I talk Joshua down. But I don’t want to do that. “Joshua is from Nigeria so he is a part of Africa.” Ajagba is most remembered for winning his bout with Curtis Harper without throwing a punch. That fight was officially clocked at one second KO. As the opening bell rang for commencement of hostilities, Harper calmly exited the ring and walked backstage, never to be seen again. The clip went viral on the social media and viewed millions of times in the days afterwards. News later emerged that Harper did that in protest against his own promoter. Details of the beef were never disclosed. According to Sky Sports, the next stage of Ajagba’s development will be promoted by Bob Arum’s Top Rank. He has changed trainers to Kay Koroma, who also works with Shakur Stevenson and Jarrett Hurd, meaning he will be based out of Virginia. Ajagba is hoping to make his Top Rank debut this month and promoter Bob Arum said: “He has immense physical tools and a great work ethic. I have the utmost confidence that we’re looking at a future heavyweight champion.” Anthony Joshua is due to defend his WBO title against Kubrat Pulev in December even as speculations are rife that he may fight fellow Briton Tyson Fury same month as the Pulev camp are likely to pull out of the mandatory challenge.