Former Super Eagles Captain and Nigeria’s living football legend, Kanu Nwankwo Tuesday in Kano commended Simba TVS, exclusive distributors of the Official Motorcycle and Tricycle of the Nigerian national team for the company’s unparalleled commitment to quality customer service nationwide. Kanu, special guest at the inauguration of a further TVS workshop in Nigeria’s northern commercial capital, singled out the country’s largest operator in the sector for praises in its demonstrated devotion to growing it’s customers’ businesses over the years The football icon said: “I commend TVS for their focus on serving their customers nationwide. As Nigeria’s largest selling keke brand, they are trusted by the keke community in every part of the country. It is great that they put their customers interests first by offering the best products and after sales service and I wish them all the best”. Reiterating service superiority as a key focus for Simba TVS, its Business Head in Nigeria, Mr Mahendra Pratap said “the opening of our new workshop in Kano is further testimony to our commitment to supporting the nationwide availability of service centres, which is driven by our desire to support our customers across the length and breadth of Nigeria.” Pratap added, “Simba TVS has long been associated with the development of football in Nigeria, and as the official Motorcycle and Tricycle of the Super Eagles, it gives us great pleasure and is a massive honour for us to have the legend Kanu Nwankwo himself, with us to meet, greet and interact with our esteemed customers.” Alongside the opening of their workshop, TVS on Tuesday flagged off the roadshow for northern states of Nigeria. According to Karthik Govindarajan, Simba Group, Head of Marketing, the purpose of the roadshow is to further endear TVS Simba motorcycles and tricycles to Nigerians both in the city and in the hinterland in a bid to serve “our customers in the farthest regions of the country”. After a tour of the well appointed and new, ultra modern facility, Kanu was especially elated at the quality of the equipment and personnel on display. “I am happy to join and congratulate TVS, a sponsor and supporter of the Super Eagles, for inauguration of their newest service centre and, once again, commend the Company for its commitment to after sales service”. Founded in Nigeria in 1988, the Simba Group operates all through the length and breadth of Nigeria with investments in several sectors of the country’s economy. In addition to transport, Simba TVS also has interests in agriculture, alternative energy, backup power supply systems, networking and data transmission and ICT infrastructure development