Okon Bassey in Uyo Another cults clash has claimed two lives in Akwa Ibom State community, it has been learnt. The clash, which occurred last Saturday in Inen Ikot Etete village in Oruk Anam Local Government Area of the state, was between De Balm and Iceland confraternities. Sources told THISDAY yesterday that members of De Balm cult group caught a member of the Iceland rival group in his family compound and attack him by cutting his body to pieces. Seeing how severe the attack was, family members of the victim and other villagers were said to have run away for their lives to safety. An eyewitness, Mr. Okon Udo Idung, said the second victim identified as ‘OSAboy’, who is a member of the community Vigilance group, was also attacked. “The cultists gave him cut and dismembered his body leaving him at the pool of his blood to die,” he said. Idung explained that OSAboy was not spared by the cultists just to hide their identity because he rammed into their operations knowing that the victim can identified them for possible arrest. He said: “They caught him after the first person was killed. We heard when he was shouting for help but the cultists did not let him go, as they killed him on the spot just to hide their identities to escape arrest. The state Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Frederick N-Nudam, said the Divisional Police Officer in Oruk Anam confirmed the cult clash occasioned by the killing of two persons in Inen Ikot Eteye. He said the state Commissioner of Police, Amiengheme Andrew, has mobilised officers from the Anti-Kidnapping Unit to join forces with Anti-Cultism squad to restore normalcy in the area. “I called the DPO of Oruk Anam LGA, and he confirmed that there was an incident of cult clash in the area. “But as soon as the incident occurred, the Commissioner of police mobilised officers, made up of anti-cultism, anti-kidnapping to join forces with Operation Flush stationed there, and the area has been subjected to serious surveillance. “As we speak, some suspects have been arrested in connection with the incident, and we hope that the police would be able to bring the situation to normalcy,” he said. Killing in Inen community has become rampant, as scores of young persons have been killed through rival cult clashes in the past six months leaving community leaders and security agencies helpless.