Lead Partner in the corporate law firm, Detail Solicitors, Mr. Ayuli Jemide has been elected as Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association’s Section on Business Law.
In his acceptance speech last Friday he said ‘With all sense of duty, I formally accept the helm of the NBA Section on Business Law, as the 7th Chairman of the Section on Business Law – 2020 – 2022. ‘Speaking for myself and on behalf of the Vice Chairman, the Secretary and the Treasurer, I must thank everyone for attending this Annual General Meeting and those who participated in nominations of the new Council Members. I thank all outgoing Council Members for their hard work, in the last two years. I want to specifically thank those who made concessions in the interest of SBL, to bring us to a situation where the persons sworn in today were returned unopposed. ‘My SBL journey has been a long engaging road with lots of fine and rewarding moments, today being one of them. As a pioneer member of the SBL, I still remember the day I called George Etomi to ask how I could be of service. I went on to serve under George Etomi as a Committee Chair, and thereafter, served every other SBL Chair in various capacities, Mfon Usoro, Gbenga Oyebode, Asue Ighodalo, Olu Akpata, and Seni Adio, SAN. ‘I have been re-elected to SBL Council three times in various capacities, including Treasurer and Vice Chairman. I have also been a conference planning committee Chair.
‘All these experiences make me realise the amount of hard work that has been deployed by all preceding Chairmen and Councils to bring our dear SBL to its enviable state, as an Association known for trail blazing and innovation. These experiences accentuate the fact that, being an SBL Chairman cannot in anyway be classified as light duty. It is a significant task, and I do not take it for granted. I therefore, approach this responsibility with a tinge of expectancy – hoping I can add my quota, by leading a team of passionate people to nurture SBL into the future, with readiness for the challenges ahead. ‘In the next few days working with the nominations Committee, we will announce the full composition of Council to include the nominated and co-opted members. I give full assurances that Council composition will be inclusive and cater for all demographics, particularly people who represent yesterday, today and tomorrow. ‘I enthusiastically look forward to working with the new Council, Committee Chairs, Committee Members and SBL Members, in the coming days. We will knock on doors from time to time, as we aim to achieve a lot through ad-hoc task forces. We will, as great listeners, be all ears. Please, bring on every thought and many new ideas. I love new ideas and I think new ideas are the best diet for great institutions, like the SBL.’