Following a rigorous review of Dr. Alim Abubakre’s record of accomplishment and contribution to advancing Executive Development in the UK, Africa and North America, he has been conferred the UK’s prestigious Senior Fellowship of the Advance Higher Education Academy (HEA), the UK’s Gold standard in pedagogy. The senior HEA fellowship is a UK national recognition for leadership, excellence, expertise and commitment to professionalism in teaching and learning. Abubakre has been able to present a thorough understanding of practical approaches to pedagogy leadership and has been a critical contributor to high-quality executive learning. Commenting on the achievement, Caroline Lucas of TEXEM, UK, explained that, “Alim Abubakre was conferred with this highly sought-after professional recognition upon review of his impact by an independent panel set up by the UK’s Advance Higher Education and confirmation that he has successful engagement across all five areas of pedagogy activity – appropriate knowledge and understanding across all aspects of core knowledge of education.” She listed others to include commitment to all the professional values; successful engagement in appropriate teaching practices related to the areas of activity; successful incorporation of subject and pedagogic research and scholarship within the above activities, as part of an integrated approach to academic practice. Also, it include the successful engagement in continuing professional development concerning teaching, learning, assessment, scholarship and, as appropriate, related academic or professional practices; successful coordination, support, supervision, management and mentoring of others (whether individuals and teams) in relation to learning and teaching. Lucas stressed that the award was a testament to TEXEM’s impressive pedigree of inspiring and encouraging public sector leaders to reform and strengthen institutions, develop actionable skills, invest in infrastructure, improve the ease of doing business and shape inclusive growth. Commenting on the special recognition, Abubakre, who is the Chair of TEXEM, UK, said: “I am humbled that the UK’s Advance Higher Education has accessed my career and the panel decided that there is strong evidence of a sustained record of effectiveness concerning impactful teaching and learning internationally. “This award is a tribute to all the distinguished Professors from Harvard, London Business School to London School of Economics, Insead, IESE, Oxford, Cambridge and Coventry. Of course, I salute all the organisations that we have worked with and other behind the scene colleagues who I have had the privilege of working with on about seventy executive development programmes in the past twelve years.”