Nume Ekeghe
9mobile said it has given out N20 million and over 1,000 smartphones in the first three weeks of its mega millions promo.
The promo was designed to reward 90 lucky customers with N1 million daily, two smartphones per hour for 90 days and a grand prize of N10 million. A statement made available by the firm quoted two customers at the 9mobile Experience Centre in Enugu, Chinedu Kalu and Chukwuemeka Victor who emerged millionaires courtesy of the Mega Millions promo. For Victor, he said he thought that the call from a 9mobile staff was a scam until he came to claim his N1m prize.
“I want to encourage other people to take advantage of this offer so that they can enjoy what I am enjoying now. I will use this money to further my master’s program at the University of Nigeria, Nsuka,” he said. Similarly, the statement quoted Kalu to have said he got wind of the promo from an advert on Youtube and started recharging N1,000 every week, which made him to win N1 million. Commenting on the win, Chinedu said: “I believed that I could win because 9mobile has never promised and failed. For those who still don’t believe, they should at least try and see for themselves. I want to encourage 9mobile to keep up the good work. This one million naira will help me with my education.” In a related development, the Mega Millions Promo reignited the dreams of a poultry farmer in Kano.
Ishak Fatihu Idris never thought that he would see his dreams materialise by just recharging his 9mobile line.
He could hardly mask his feeling of joy as he claimed his N1 million prize at the 9mobile experience centre in Kano, expressed his appreciation to 9mobile. “I have never had this kind of money before. All I can say is thank you, and that the 9mobile business will continue to flourish,” an elated Ishak remarked. The 9mobile Mega Millions Promo will run through November 2020. It promises hourly smartphone prizes to customers who recharge a minimum of N200, a N1million win for customers who recharge N1000 or more, while a cumulative recharge of N10000 monthly throughout the duration of the promo will enable one lucky customer to walk away with the grand prize of N10million.