Foremost Financial institution, First Bank of Nigeria (FBN) has pledged its support to business and societal growth through selfless service delivery. Chief Executive Officer of FBN, Adesola Adeduntan stated this at virtual Forbes Award ceremony and Philanthropy Round Table Discussion, organised by Foreign Investment Network, FIN, recently. Forbes ‘Best of Africa’ award recognises business personalities with sound record of creating and building global businesses that have made far-reaching impact to Africa’s development. Adeduntan was a recipient of the prestigious award, alongside the CEO of Ocean Marine Security Ltd, Idahosa Wells Okunbo and Founder of Online Integrated Solutions Ltd, Mahmood Ahmadu. Adeduntan, who dedicated the award to all First Bank staffers, stated that the bank received the honour as an incentive to do more in corporate responsibility and sustainability. He said, “I am gratified that we have exemplified corporate leadership by providing seamless digital banking services, and by championing the safety and wellbeing of our society without let or hindrance. We achieved these because we have always worked to accentuate sustainable practices for over 126 years. “We have not only provided excellent financial services to our teeming customers, we have also contributed in no small measure to the growth and development of this nation in all ramifications.” Earlier In her address, Chairman of FIN, Mrs. Olayinka Fayemi stated that FIN is exploring how philanthropy can marshal financial resources and social capital to make a lasting impact now and in future. Speaking on the theme of the discussion, “Harnessing the Financial Resources and Social Capital of Philanthropy to Making a Lasting Impact”, Fayemi recognised the impact of philanthropic gestures to development. “The importance of philanthropists in today’s lives cannot be ignored. The global community is now plagued by the novel Coronavirus pandemic which has upended human lives with catastrophic consequences like never before. “Philanthropy can be directed to address today’s most pressing social issues and meet the challenges of tomorrow,” she said. She congratulated the awardees and encouraged them to continue to remain responsible to the society and the nation at large.