Raheem Akingbolu Poised to ameliorate the harsh economic conditions of Nigerians, Amber Energy Drink, a premium energy drink on the stable of Amber Energy Drinks Ltd has begun an empowerment programme aimed at improving the standards of living of a teeming number of the citizens. Specifically, Amber Energy drink is seeking to ensure that Nigerians make money in their own country through trade finance loan so as to be financially independent to cope with life while enhancing their standards of living. Among other reasons, it is believed that the step was being taken because most Nigerians have been impoverished due to the Covid-19 pandemic that caused several months of economic lock-downs, thereby resulting into harsh economic and poor living conditions for most of the citizens. However, Amber Energy Drink which prides itself as a business fully owned by Nigerians and for Nigerians all over the world has assured it will change the narratives for better by improving the lives of Nigerians and teeming consumers by granting them financial autonomy through trade empowerment scheme. Consequently, the company has commenced training programme for 400 Nigerians who would be inducted into small and medium scale enterprises to be supported to grow under a well arranged and structured semi-informal system. Declaring open the empowerment scheme in Lagos during the week, General Manager of the company, Ms. Lola Adedeji said the, “empowerment programme (AEP) was borne out of our core values and beliefs. We believe in helping people become more self-dependent by making more money and creating a livelihood for themselves”. According to her “we believe Nigerians will and should drive the economy, we want them to have multiple streams of income so that they can be financially independent”, she disclosed adding that the scheme is such that would be mutually rewarding and profitable to all stakeholders. With this, a participant gets a product loan to the value of N100,000 to trade and repay the principal while interest would only be paid within a period of Four months. Interest rate, according to the General Manager is five per cent flat rate. The empowerment programme would also afford beneficiaries the opportunity to own Amber Energy Canopy for stocking and selling the products. The Canopy will also be repaid within twelve to eighteen months. Adedeji said the company would open an account with them and each will be credited with one-hundred thousand naira only. This will in turn be auto debited with 20 crates of Amber Energy Drinks that would be traded for repayment by the beneficiaries. In other words, beneficiaries who have become automatic vendors and trade partners can get as many crates of the Amber Energy products on a monthly basis and make as much as five-hundred thousand naira as profit depending on their sales efficiency. The empowerment tagged, “Choose Your Hustle” is in form of a trade loan finance and lease of Recharge Spot.
In her own presentation at the occasion, Amber Energy Drinks Head of Sales, Mrs. Temitope Adetiba said the company has put in place all arrangements to make the empowerment scheme a huge success. She specifically revealed that beneficiaries would be greatly assisted through aggressive promotion campaigns for the product by using all relevant marketing and advertising channels. According to her, “our strategy to make the empowerment scheme work is constant brand awareness and engagement through Radio, TVC, Social Media, Activations and below-the-line efforts”, adding that the company’s sales representatives will also regularly visit the beneficiaries to monitor their activities and challenges real time. Mrs. Adetiba said beneficiaries are in for a good time as Amber Energy Drink is a high quality product that is presently in great demands by Nigerians.