Goddy Egene
Standard Chartered in collaboration with Visa, has launched a new ‘Safe is Smart’ campaign, aimed at encouraging the adoption of e-Commerce solutions, as Nigeria journeys onto economic recovery.
The campaign aims to promote and educate consumers on smart ideas and e-payments solutions that will drive sustainability, survival and business recovery in the e-payments ecosystem. Following the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the campaign also seeks to provide convenient and secure cashless payment alternatives through the Standard Chartered Visa Debit card, QR payment solutions and the Standard Chartered digital banking mobile app.
Commenting on the partnership, Head of Retail Banking at Standard Chartered West Africa, David Idoru, noted that it was important to increase consumer awareness on the safety of cashless payments solutions. “e-Ccommerce transactions make a large percentage of consumer spend and we want to be able to support consumers through our digital solutions to help them make smart financial decisions especially during the Covid-19 period. “Our retail banking business is heavily focused on championing a digitised payment revolution to provide convenience and access to our customers especially through our fully digital mobile app. “This partnership with Visa also further emphasises our commitment to the financial wellbeing of our clients, as Standard Chartered Visa Card holders, will enjoy numerous benefits including points earned using our 360 rewards program and zero surcharges at the point of sales through the ‘Safe is Smart’ initiative,” he said. Commenting, on the partnership, Vice President, Visa West Africa, Kemi Okusanya, said: “The reality of the Covid-19 pandemic has presented a new shift in consumer behavior and through our network, we want to ensure that consumers are embracing the most secure payment solutions. Data from our Covid-19 impact tracker reveal that digital payments are on the rise, as more people now choose digital payments over cash transactions. “The survey revealed that 39 per cent of consumers in Nigeria started purchasing groceries online, 42 per cent started purchasing food delivery online, while 43 per cent of consumers started purchasing from pharmacies online for the first time. “The next evolution of payments is going to be driven by collaborations with financial institutions like Standard Chartered Bank. In a time as critical as this, our goal is to continuously foster innovation driven by technology to meet consumers’ every day needs, while driving the economy to recovery through accelerated eCommerce transactions,” she added.