Udora Orizu in Abuja The Kebbi State Caucus in the House of Representatives has commiserated with the government and people of the state on the recent flood disaster that ravaged the entire state. Last week, heavy floods submerged thousands of hectares of farmlands and houses, killing many people and destroying farm produce and personal belongings in the affected communities. Addressing journalists yesterday on behalf of the caucus, the Chairman, Hon. Muhammad Jega, representing Gwandu/Aliero/Jega federal constituency, said the disaster is a major setback to the federal government effort to boost local rice production as part of measures to end rice importation. He lamented that the disaster could not have come at a worse time for the farmers who were looking forward to a bumper harvest this year to reduce the rising cost of food items. The lawmaker, while commending President Muhammadu Buhari and the state Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, for the prompt response to reduce the hardship caused by the flood, also urged them to as a matter of urgency send relief materials to alleviate the suffering of the people in the state. Jega further urged the federal government to commission a study with the aim of providing a lasting solution to the perennial flood disaster in the state. According to him, “The flood is a serious setback towards addressing food security in the country; the government, therefore, needs to address the shortfall of the food supply chain to reduce the hardship and cost of food items in the market, and also address the severe environmental degradation caused by the flood. This may include adequate and early preparation for dry-season farming and reconstruction of major infrastructures affected in the state. ‘’The estimated cost of the disaster is over N10 billion across the state. We call on the federal government as a matter of urgency to send relief materials to alleviate the suffering of the people in the state, as early preparation for dry season farming should commence in earnest with provision of seedlings, fertilizer and other inputs to be made available to the farmers in good time.’’