James Sowole in Akure The Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP) in Ondo State yesterday raised the alarm of alleged plan by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to unleash violence on the opposition and the electorate in the state in the October 10, 2020, governorship poll. The CNPP raised the alarm at a news conference in Akure, Ondo State, which was attended by chairmen and secretaries of more than 40 political parties. The briefing was attended by representatives of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Social Democratic Party (SDP) and Action Democratic Congress (ADC) Speaking on behalf of officers of other political parties, the CNPP Chairman, Mr. Rotimi Boboye, described the statewide violence that marred the recent local government election in the state as a dress rehearsal to what will happen in the governorship poll. According to Boboye, “The recourse to violence, intimidation and subterfuge by officials of the outgoing APC government in Ondo State as manifested in the recent local government poll largely boycotted by many political parties is a confirmation that the APC is preparing for war and not an election. “In the said sham of an election, not only were candidates of participating parties intimidated, harassed and violently assaulted, voters were disenfranchised and figures concocted to meet the pre-planned agenda of the outgoing APC government.” Reacting swiftly, the state Publicity Secretary of the APC, Mr. Alex Kalejaye, described the accusation as baseless and untrue. Kalejaye said APC is a party loved by the people of the state, and that the party has no reason to cause trouble of any kind. However, Boboye said rather than abate; the violence has taken new dimensions with meetings of political parties being invaded by known thugs, members of the APC, their cronies and agents. “Also spreading across the state are confirmed incidences of scarred heads, broken limbs and bruised bodies which align with the ‘strategy’ openly canvassed by Kekemeke which is yet to be condemned by his party, the APC,” he added. The CNPP chairman said the most annoying part was when their members, who went to report attack on its members at Supare Akoko, were arrested. “We frowned at the illegal arrest, dehumanising treatment and detention of members of the opposition parties by police and military officers,” Boboye said. He therefore called on President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene and do everything to ensure a violence-free, fair and credible election in Ondo State.