Airtel Nigeria has announced a partnership with Google to unveil Mobile Data Platform (MDP), a new feature that enhances and digitalises the journey of customers’ data purchase, utilisation and management in Nigeria. According to both organisations, the newly introduced MDP, which is only available to Android Operating System (OS) users, offers a personalised experience and provides interface for data customers on the Airtel network to purchase data plans, check data balance and receive threshold notifications seamlessly without a need for memorising codes or short words. To access the service, Airtel customers with Android OS are required to go to settings on their Android device, then Google option where they will find the MDP to purchase as well as manage data plan and offers. Commenting on the launch of the Mobile Data Platform, Chief Commercial Officer, Airtel Nigeria, Dinesh Balsingh, said “Airtel is delighted to be the first telecoms operator in Nigeria and Africa to partner with Google to deliver an innovative service that is offering true freedom and also putting real power in the hands of telecoms consumers as they define their data journey and experience.” Balsingh added: “At Airtel, we are deeply passionate about making life simpler, smarter, easier and better for our customers. Indeed, the launch of the MDP is a huge step forward in empowering telecoms consumers to become more productive and successful in their professional and personal endeavours.” Paxful Expands, Adds Tether to its Platform Global peer-to-peer bitcoin marketplace, Paxful, has announced the addition of Tether (USDT) to its platform. The inclusion of USDT, the world’s largest stablecoin by market value, will assist users in combating a volatile market, protecting their assets, and expanding their portfolio. The industry has seen a surging demand for a stable digital currency amidst fears of an economic recession in both traditional and digital markets. In the last 12 months, Tether has established itself as a champion amongst stablecoins, with a market capitalization of over $13 billion. CEO, and co-founder of Paxful, Ray Youssef, said: “We consider this a big step for us since this is the first cryptocurrency other than bitcoin we have on the platform. We always listen to our users. We understand that they go to Paxful for wealth generation and turn to crypto for stability when their national currency is affected by inflation. We hope that this can aid them to be more in control of their finances.” The addition comes with a hedging option, allowing users to instantly convert BTC to USDT and vice versa, helping the users protect their funds during bitcoin price fluctuations. The company also plans to enable USDT trading on the platform. Same as with the bitcoin (BTC) trading in the Paxful marketplace, users can buy and sell USDT with over 300 payment methods. The USDT balance is accessible via the wallet page, where the current market price for both coins is displayed. The launch of this feature marks Paxful’s first step towards potentially adding new cryptocurrencies in the future. The company recently announced that the platform, Paxful has hit 4.5 million registered wallets, reached $4.6 billion in trading volume, and reduced dispute levels to under one per cent. Since inception, they have added one million users per year and so far in 2020 and are on track to sign up an additional two million users by the end of the year.