By Yinka Olatunbosun Footballers dream of an appearance at the World Cup, the same way actors, dream of an appearance in a Hollywood feature film. For Nigeria-born Oghenekaro Itene, her role in the 2019 American action thriller film, Chase has brought some good tidings. The movie won the Best Action Film Award at the Hollywood Reel Independent Film Festival 2019.
Now a regular face on some of the prestigious film events in the Hollywood, United States, Oghenekaro has inked a deal as Nature Herbal Life Brand Ambassador, a leading US manufacturer of Herbal Supplements which includes the world -famous Bitter Leaf Capsules and Bitter Leaf Tea. Before her sojourn to America to fulfill her dreams of an international career, Oghenekaro had starred in some of the most spectacular productions in Nigeria and South Africa.
With lots of critical acclaims accompanying most of her roles, there is no gain wondering why she is also a delight for advertisers who see her personality as appropriate to drive the sales goals of their brands. Oghenekaro’s acting debut came in 2013 in Shattered Mirror, a feature film directed by Lancelot Imasuen Oduwa, with the role of a Reverend Sister. Later, she appeared as Simi in Lincoln’s Clan drama series produced by Total Recall/ content Africa, A pan Africa Project. Her original plan was to work on one or two film projects and concentrate on her company Kadia Makeovers as a makeup artist. She stayed away from acting for a little under one year, returning in 2015, when she landed a role in Mnet Africa series Tinsel, as the wedding planner. She appeared as Sonia in the feature film Glass House by Africa Magic Original Films/Mnet Production released in 2016, followed by the feature film, The Prodigal in which she played Tessy. In 2016, Itene landed a role in her first big-screen movie Esohe directed by Charles Uwagbai in the role Itohan. Itene completed a US tour where the movie Esohe premiered. Esohe was screened at the Nollywood Travel festival in Toronto.