By Sunday Ehigiator The Association of Licensed Private Security Practitioners of Nigeria (ALPSPN) Lagos Zone, has urged the Lagos State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), to clamp down on the operations of unregistered private security companies in the state for the safety of the residents. The association made the plea during a courtesy visit by its newly elected executives to the State Command of NSCDC. The newly elected Zonal Chairman of the Association, Mr. Babatunde Mumuni, assured the Corp of the support of the association. “We would like to say that the relationship and the bond that we have had with the NSCDC Lagos Command is one that has been really cordial. The visit of the excos here is to reassure you that same cordiality, and even more would be extended to the Corp. “We have a very close relationship with the Corp and we are seeking ways to deepen that relationship further. The major challenge for us as an association is the issue of quacks, otherwise known as unlicensed security companies. “We would like you to use your good office and your team to help us. We would work with you to fashion out a process in which communication would be seen clearly, and concise. So that, when the information comes and we pass it as an Association to the Corp, appropriate actions would be taken,” Mumuni said. Reacting to the association’s request, the State Commandant, NSCDC, Commandant Makinde Ayinla, expressed disappointment over the lack of cooperation from members of the association in terms of efforts by the Corps to clamp down on unlicensed private security companies in time past. He, however, promised to give them all necessary support needed in achieving the task. “It is a pleasure meeting the new executives. I really understand your challenges. We understand that there are lots of unlicensed private guard companies. But the association would continue to hammer on it, and require that you give us timely information about where they are, so that we can act. “I gave out my personal number, including my email for you to give me that information, just in case you don’t want to discuss with my staff on a matter of confidentiality. “The one we got few days when I reported, we went there, but by the time we arrived, they have left the location. How did they get to know that we were coming? So, most of the time, I always like to keep such information classified. Help me to help you.
“It is our duty to protect you. The Private Guard Company is one of the core mandates of the NSCDC, therefore I don’t joke with it. “We have four clear mandates. One is crisis management, private guard companies, critical national assets and infrastructures, and agro rangers. All other things that we are doing is to support all other security agencies, and to furnish government intelligent information. All other things aside these are secondary,” he said.