The founder/chief executive of Unubiko Foundation, Mr. James Ume has donated 830 pieces of personal protective equipment (PPE) to the Federal Medical Centre Isolation Centre, Umuahia. Speaking while handing over the equipment to the Chief Medical Director, FMC, the programme coordinator of Unubiko Foundation, Dr. Benjamin Isani, said the gesture was aimed at supporting the efforts of the state government in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Isani, while commending the efforts of the state government at curbing the spread of the dreaded pandemic, said the equipment would aid in protecting the medical personnel attending to the Covid-19 patients at the isolation centre. According to him, “Covid-19 is real, and we at this foundation advise that all adhere strictly to the protocols established by the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, in the fight against the virus. People should endevour to present themselves voluntarily for testing; avoid self-medication, disregard misleading information about Covid-19, among others.” He further commended Governor Okezie Ikpeazu for the strategies adopted in creating awareness through which a majority of Abia residents became aware of the pandemic, and assured that the foundation would continue to support the state government in the fight against the scourge. The programme coordinator also commended Ikpeazu for bracing for the challenges of Covid-19 by providing testing equipment, training of managers for the management of the novel disease, and for equitably distributing palliatives to various Abia groups. He also called on the residents of the state to take the responsibilities of curbing the pandemic upon themselves. Responding, the Chief Medical Director, Federal Medical Centre Umuahia, Dr Azubuike Onyebuchi, while appreciating the founder of Unubiko Foundation for his philanthropic gestures as well as his support towards curbing the spread of the virus across the state, assured him that the equipment would be used judiciously.