Winners have emerged across the country in the on-going Glo Rewards Cashtoken, an empowerment promo packaged exclusively by National Telecommunications Company, Globacom for its subscribers. The winners who emerged from the cities of Lagos, Port Harcourt, Abuja, Calabar, and Kaduna, as well as Warri, Ilorin, Igueben, Edo State and Ibadan, have already been presented with their prizes In a press statement released in Lagos on Monday, Globacom said “We congratulate the winners and promise to continue to provide different empowerment opportunities from time to time, in which they will benefit from the network” Among the winners are Anthony Iyemi from Warri, who smiled home with N100,000, a Civil Engineering student of Cross River State University, William Ubi who won N200,000; Sarah Sadiq, a student of Ogun State Institute of Technology, Igbesa, N20,000, Mohammed Tijani, a Kaduna-based farmer, who picked N20,000 as prize and Benson Polycab from Igueben, Edo State who also won N20,000. Ayomide Ibukun, a 300 level student of Marketing at the Ekiti State University also went home with N20,0000 as prize as well as Ugochi Nwabiokeze, a businesswoman in Onelga, Port Harcourt who also won 20,000. A business centre operator in Warri, Anthony Iyemi in an emotion-laden voice said “It’s a thing of joy that I won out of millions of Nigerians that participated in the promo. I never believed that I will win. I’ve always been using Glo network, and I especially enjoy the Glo Cafe.” According to him, I used the money to buy phone, laminating machine and binding machine which I don’t have in my Business Center before. Now I have expanded my business courtesy of Glo. It’s my reward time and I pray that Glo will continue to grow from glory to glory.” On his part, William Ubi said “this is my first time of winning in any promo. So when I got a call from Globacom, I was very happy. The money has helped to transform my wife’s business. We added more stocks, especially those that were in demand which we don’t have before. Now, we are selling more and making more profit, thanks to Glo. I pray that God will reward Glo for this unexpected gift”. Another winner Ugochi Nwaobikeze, a business woman based in Onelga, Port Harcourt also thanked Glo for the promo which gave her the opportunity to win N20,000, which she said she has added to her business. Also in Kaduna -based, Mohammed Tijani was very effusive in his submission, thanking Globacom for the prize. He stated that: “My friends did not believe it when I told them that I received the call from Glo, but were later convinced when I received the prize.” Tijani said that he will continue to participate in all Glo promos in order to win bigger prizes in future. As part of its plan to reward its subscribers for their loyalty and patronage, Globacom launched Glo Rewards Cashtoken scheme in June. The promo which is open to all new and existing prepaid customers on Glo network guarantees subscribers cash back of N6 each time they recharge their lines, in addition to the assured sum. In addition, the subscriber also qualifies for a weekly lottery draw in which they can win between N5,000 and N100 million. While restating its commitment to empowering its subscribers at all times, Globacom called on them to make utmost use of the opportunity provided by the Glo Reward Cashtoken promo.