Hollandia, a dairy brand in Nigeria from CHI Limited said it recently provided dairy nourishment to children in internally displaced persons’ (IDP) camps and orphanages in Lagos.
A statement explained that the gesture came at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic is disrupting food supply chains and availability and devastating livelihoods, leading to the deteriorating quality of diets and nutrition.
“This nutritional challenge poses a threat to the human body’s immune function and good health especially to children who are disadvantaged or in vulnerable situations. “Hollandia Nurture A Child initiative addresses the challenge of malnutrition amongst Nigerian children and the overall wellbeing of the Nigerian child in general.
“Under this initiative, Hollandia donated its tasty and nourishing Hollandia Evaporated Milk and Hollandia Yoghurt products to the children.
“The beneficiaries include the Internally Displaced Persons Camp in Bogije, Ibeju Lekki, Lot Foundation Dustbin Estate in Ajegunle, Life Changers Orphanage in Festac, and Chosen Child Orphanage, Badia, all in Lagos,” the statement explained. The initiative hopes to ease the challenges of children in vulnerable situations, currently experiencing inadequate nutrition, by providing healthy dairy nourishment to boost their immunity and wellness.
“As medical experts have confirmed, having a healthy immune system is especially important to defend the body against viruses, bacteria and other illnesses. “Hollandia Evaporated Milk and Hollandia Yoghurt contain nutrients such as Vitamins A, B1, B5, B6, B12, and D, Calcium, Potassium, Iron, Protein, Carbohydrates, Milk fat, etc., which are essential for growth, development, good health, and boosting the body’s immune system,” it added.
Receiving the products on behalf of the Internally Displaced Persons Camp, Bogije Ibeju Lekki, Mrs. Bose Aggrey, Executive Director, Web of Hearts Foundation thanked the management of CHI Limited for the initiative. “Sometime last year, we were beneficiaries of a huge product donation from Hollandia and we can attest that over 500 children benefited from the project. “We are happy that you find us worthy to partner with again this year. I am confident that the children would get the much required nutrition they need through consumption of Hollandia Evaporated Milk and Hollandia Yoghurt.
“We are happy to receive them as we expect them to provide nourishment for the children here,” she said. Chi Limited Managing Director, Mr. Deepanjan Roy, stated that the company introduced the initiative with a view to making a difference in the lives of those who really matter, children. He explained: “Children are the future of the nation. The Hollandia Nurture A Child initiative is committed to providing support to needy children so that every Child can thrive and grow well irrespective of their situation in life. Nurturing a child starts with ensuring they receive the right nourishment. “That is why we are trying to provide the needy children in IDP camps and orphanages with our nourishing Hollandia products to support their growth, thus supporting building a healthy, happy, well-nourished nation.
“We feel very proud and glad to provide Hollandia nourishment to vulnerable children but especially at this critical time”, he stated.