* N Victory is deserving, says Obi Our Correspondents Former Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Oyegun, has said that the governorship election held in Edo State has shown that credible election is possible in Nigeria. Oyegun’s comment came as the 2019 vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Peter Obi, has congratulated the Governor-elect of Edo State, Godwin Obadeki and his deputy, Philip Shuabu, for their victory at the gubernatorial election in the state last Saturday. Oyegun said this while reacting to the outcome of the election in which Governor Godwin Obaseki emerged winner. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for conducting a free and fair election. He said with the conduct of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and security agents during the election, it shows that no order was given to them. He also hailed Edo people and all those who contributed to making the election free, fair peaceful and credible. On his part, Obi said in a statement from his media office yesterday that the victory was deserving and a true reflection and wish of the good people of Edo State. The former Anambra State governor said he saw the victory coming given the good record of performance of Governor Obaseki in his first term. “Democracy is when the people are allowed to determine who leads them after weighing the records of the candidates. Obi charged Obaseki and his deputy to see their victory as a catalyst to do more for their people.” He also commended INEC and others who played different roles in the election for playing by the rules and urged them to continue in this direction the for sake of peace in Nigeria. Diri: Victory was Triumph for Democracy Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has congratulated his Edo State counterpart, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, on his victory in Saturday’s governorship election. In a statement signed by his Daniel Alabrah, his Acting Chief Press Secretary, Governor Diri said Obaseki’s resounding victory was a triumph for democracy and, indeed, the people of Edo State. The governor noted that people’s power, as expressed in the Edo election, remained the most potent force in any democracy. He commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for upholding the will of the Edo people despite reported pressure to unduly influence the outcome of the poll. The governor noted that Obaseki’s re-election would give greater impetus to development of the state as he is the most popular choice of the people. The Bayelsa governor equally congratulated the PDP for securing yet another heartwarming victory in Edo, saying he is particularly delighted that all the states in the South-South region now belong to the PDP family. Makinde: INEC Must Build on Positives for Future Elections Oyo State Governor, Mr. Seyi Makinde, yesterday congratulated the re-elected governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, and his deputy, Philip Shaibu, describing their re-election as a victory for the people of the state. Makinde, in a congratulatory message to Obaseki, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Edo State governorship election, also praised the National Campaign Council of the PDP led by the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike for a job well done. He congratulated the duo of Obaseki and Shaibu, on what he described as a well-deserved victory, noting that it was gratifying to see the will of the people triumph. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, indicated that Governor Makinde lauded the PDP National Campaign Council led Governor Nyesom Wike, for making the party proud. He maintained that the PDP ran an issue-based campaign and proved its democratic tendencies all through the process, which started from the ward, local government and state congresses, (which were overseen by Makinde himself), to the party primaries and subsequently the campaign and election. Victory True Reflection of the Wishes of Edo People, Says Ortom Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has congratulate Governor Godwin Obaseki on his victory at the just concluded Edo State governorship election. Ortom yesterday in a statement issued by his media aide, Terver Akase, described Governor Obaseki’s victory as a true reflection of the wishes of Edo people and not the machinations of some individuals and self-made gods. The governor commendsed the dogged determination of Governor Obaseki to overcome intimidation and uphold the mandate his people popularly gave him. He equally congratulates the people of Edo State, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP and Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike who was the Chairman of PDP Campaign Council for the 2020 Edo governorship election. He said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) also deserves plaudits for the credible conduct of the polls without yielding to pressure to thwart the will of the people The Will of the People Prevailed, Says Ayade Cross River State governor, Sir Ben Ayade has congratulated his Edo State counterpart, Godwin Obaseki on his re-election. A statement signed by his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Christian Ita, Ayade, described Obaseki’s victory at the polls as well deserved considering his achievements in the past four years. “I extend my warm felicitations to you on your well deserved victory in the just concluded Edo gubernatorial election. For those of us who have keenly followed your giant strides in Edo state, your victory did not come as a surprise. “Your re-election therefore, represents a bold and emphatic testimony to the good work you have done in the past four years,” the statement quoted Ayade as saying. He however, urged Governor Obaseki to see his “victory as a clarion call to do more for Edo people who have these four years reposed their confidence in you”. Expressing delight that governor Obaseki’s re-election now brings the entire South south under PDP total control, the Cross River state governor urged him to be magnanimous in victory. He also commended President Muhammadu Buhari, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies for their neutrality in the election. PDP House Caucus Congratulates Obaseki, Says Democracy at Play The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the House of Representatives has congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki on his victory at the just concluded governorship election in Edo State. The caucus in a statement by its leader, Hon. Kingsley Chinda said Governor Obaseki’s victory depicted democracy as a reflection of the people’s will to elect a credible leader that will serve the interest of the people and not a few. Chinda while congratulating the governor and PDP also congratulated the people of Edo State for coming out en masse to vote and protect same despite hitches of voting in some local government areas. He said: “I want to congratulate Governor Godwin Obaseki on his victory at the poll and his conduct at the elections. This is a sign that Nigerians and especially the people of Edo state have woken up to the fact that their votes must count and say no to god-fatherism politics in Nigeria. Though the election witnessed the display of security operatives laying siege on Governors of the Peoples Democratic Party, it did not deter or distract voters from voting a leader that will pilot the affairs of the state in the next four years.” Chinda also advised the APC candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu to accept the result in good faith and join hands with Obaseki to provide quality service to the people of Edo State. Edo Election: Good Elixir for Ondo, Says PDP The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State yesterday congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki on his resounding victory at the Saturday’s Elections in Edo State. The party in a statement signed by its Publicity Secretary, Perete Ikandu, said the election was a straight fight between “ Federal might” and the “People’s Might”. It noted that at the end of the exercise, the people triumphed. He said: “We also congratulate the Edo people for their doggedness and rejecting godfathers who wanted to make Edo State, an extension of their business and political empire. “There is no doubt, this victory is not only for Obaseki and PDP family, but also a good omen for October 10 Gubernatorial election in Ondo State. Our hope is rekindled and our energy revitalised. “The PDP, wishes to appreciate the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for not subverting the wishes of the people. In spite of isolated cases of non compliance, the outcome of the election is a reflection of what the people wanted.” The statement also congratulated the Chairman of the National Campaign Council for Edo 2020 Governorship Election, Mr. Nyesom Wike, the Giver or of Oyo State, Mr Seyi Makinde, other members of the Campaign Council, the National Chairman of PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, entire National and State leadership of the PDP for this hard earned victory. It said Ondo is next, as victory is sure for Eyitayo Jegede, SAN on October 10, 2020. Natasha Akpoti: Victory Shows True Power Belongs to the People, Not Godfathers The governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the November 1 6, 2019 election in Kogi State, Natasha Akpoti, has congratulated the incumbent Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki on his outstanding victory at the poll which returned him as second term governor of Edo State. Akpoti in a telephone interview with journalists, said the victory transcends political platforms because it shows that true power belongs to the people not godfathers. The SPD flag bearer who is still not happy with the Supreme court verdict on the controversial Kogi State governorship election, said the outpour of votes in favour of Obaseki only proves that sheer determination by the people can make goals prevail. She explained that godfatherism breeds criminal politics, usurps the rights and choices of the people; and worsens the sociopolitical development of Nigeria. “Eradicating this vice will do Nigeria’s democracy a whole lot of good.” She commended the people of Edo State for their resilience in the face of intimidation as they came out en masse to exercise their franchise without fear or favour. According to her, Obaseki was a performer, having done well in his first tenure, the people connected well with him and ensured they voted for him because they are tired of godfathers. Opposition Parties Congratulate Obaseki on Re-election The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki on his victory and reelection as Edo State Governor. CUPP in a statement issued by its spokesman Ikenga Ugochinyere viewed Obaseki’s victory and re-election for second term as a triumph of people’s ultimate power to freely elect their leaders without any coercion. The coalition also commended the neutrality of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the exercise, saying that it’s a promising sign for a new decent electoral order in the country. CUPP said, ‘’There is no doubt that this is a hard-earned victory considering the tension that enveloped the nation’s political space ahead of the electoral contest. The people of Edo State, with the massive support given to Governor Obaseki, have spoken with a loud voice that they will no longer tolerate electoral rasacality from people within and outside the state, no matter how highly-placed.’’ ‘’They have, also with their action, shown Nigerian voters how to stand up against the All Progressives Congress bandit politics by resisting Governors Hope Uzodimma, Abdullahi Ganduje and Yahaya Bello who were unleashed on the state for the sole purpose of subverting people’s will as it happened in their various states.’’ ‘’Opposition political parties also wish to put on record the exceptional courage displayed by Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State in ensuring that the people’s will prevails in Edo State.”