Iboro Otu, an Abuja-based businessman and politician laments that governments at various levels in Nigeria pointedly refuse to engage competent individuals Observing Nigeria, you’ll quickly notice that this is a nation operating pretty much like a person trying to get on a nearby Starbucks WiFi while in a moving vehicle in central London – the traffic is slow enough for you to access the free internet but doesn’t wait long enough for you to browse a page. Arriving at every junction, you notice this repetition. End point, you always have a connection but never can hold it long enough to make progress. In Nigeria, you are always on the outside looking in, lapping on water like thirsty King Tantalus – the son of Zeus and Plouto – in Tartarus; hanging between Heaven and Hell, close enough to lap the water around him but not enough to have a drink from it. Of course, it is from him the word ‘Tantalize’ originated. Nigeria is a tantalizing nation; always holding promise after promise, decade after decade, never fulfilling any. For a while now, many of us observing the nation shared with who ever cared to listen that judging by unfolding events, something was wrong in Nigeria. However, with the latest happenings now, it seems like something is wrong with Nigeria. In the words of Malcolm X, ‘we have been had, bamboozled, led astray, run amok…’ Petrol pump price just got a bump, it’s been increased to N152, currently retailing at N161 – at a time when oil prices are failing elsewhere. We have woken up to a total government turnaround, to discover the price for a kilowatt of power just gone up 100% while power supply remains same however! All this is happening within a 24hour period and then, as a side kick, Don Jazzy and Queen Tiwa both just got savaged. They were invited by the DSS and a gag order allegedly placed on their political pronouncements. What/who’s next? Meanwhile, however, all semblance of oneness have disappeared from the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), soon we might be witnessing events like it happened with the Nigerian Governors Forum where 9 was greater than 15 – but in the legal profession. Where do we go for succour? Are you seeing the cracks finally coming forward? The scorpion whips, the predatory instincts of rulers, out of their dark enclaves have arose a new vision of ownership, whether it is for our basic water resources or our human rights, they are using the cloak of government to dagger our humanness. We are facing an existential threat that now looms larger than Boko Haram, ostensibly promoted by the acts of people in power, unfortunately. We are being pushed hard against tex-coated walls, will our backs not lacerate? We are stabbed with injustice and graft, are our pockets not bleeding dry? Now that they have chosen to stand against the wishes of the people, putting unbearable yolks of suffering and pain on us, shall we not revolt? Amidst all this meanwhile, I got off a phone call only just yesterday with two great African sons performing great feats across the world, supported by systems that embrace innovation and intelligence. One is a British – Nigerian producer and filmmaker of Ghanaian descent, married to our Nigerian sister, he was awarded an MBE (Member of the Order of the British Empire) for his services to the global black film industry by Queen Elizabeth. He is doing amazing stuff in ways words can’t completely describe. The other is a full blooded Nigerian who is a former Special Adviser to the British Prime Minister. While in government, he brought to the table an inclusive system that broadened resourcefulness. Imagine the many others who are doing many great things in places where systems work without fear or favour. They have unbridled passion for this place if only they are given space to operate. It is our duty to set free this nation and let excellence come in. When people complain, whether it is Tiwa Savage or Don Jazzy, it means they’ve seen something wrong somewhere, they are Nigerians first. It is their inalienable right to advocate and speak up, regardless of their personal endeavors as internationally renowned musical artistes. With the advent of Twitter and other social media, it means such individuals can relate across spectrums and when things go wrong, their responsive feelers, through their broad networks, get quick feedback. As such, they speak out; not just for themselves but also because they reflect millions of voices they represent – a community of voices who share certain views and opinions but don’t necessarily have the platform to ventilate. The worst any responsive government can do is ignore these dissenting voices, the best would be to entertain them, engage them positively on public platforms, not quieten us with threats. The Special Adviser to the British Prime Minister told me he was given the position even when he wasn’t a Conservative Party member; he was chosen purely because of his competence and accomplishments as an advocate for supporting the BAME community through enterprise and inclusivity. He was able to transform the network between the BAME community and the British government – opening doors for hundreds of individuals and businesses so much so that it was noted that in two years, he had brought more people of black origin into the government fold than any other had from the beginning of the conservative government to date. This is what competence brings to the table; progress. Observing Nigeria, when we fail to recognize and connect performance to competence, we fail. We fail as a government, as businesses, as society, as a people and as individuals. Our unravelling economy is as a result of a people failure, only. When we prefer ‘our thief to their thief’, the system becomes broken and things go in reverse. A knee-jerk reaction means that as a government is unable to carry out its duties, it resolves to quieting dissenting views. It has begun. What happens when your fuel price, food prices, transportation and power costs doubles? It tells the true value of both your democracy and your currency. We have lost both. Nigeria is unravelling fast. We have to find a rallying point to counter this present sectarian narrative to everything. We now have a few.