Emma Okonji The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has insisted that it will continue with the implementation of its ‘Fair Usage Policy’ on consumers’ data rollover.
At its recent virtual bi-annual meeting, both the management of NCC and the senior executives of telecommunication companies, decided that they would hold follow-up discussions on “Fair Usage Policy” on unlimited data bundles/data rollover, in order to provide clearer explanation and better understanding of the processes and procedures of the policy for the benefit of the consumers. The commission therefore restated that its directive on June 2018, for service providers to commence implementation of data rollover remains in force.
In other words, a subscriber’s unused data must be rolled over to his/her subsequent data subscription.
Therefore, the commission urged service providers to continue to inform and educate subscribers on the procedures and processes for data rollover. At the meeting, which focused on consumer relations and complaint management processes, the NCC and the telecom service providers, also agreed that the compensation policy should be revisited and complied with at all times.
This, they said, would ensure full compliance with the new Complaint Categories and Service Level Agreement (CC/SLA) consented to by the NCC and the service providers in the telecommunication ecosystem Service providers also agreed to ensure that senior level customer relations officers support their respective complaints management teams, to resolve complaints that were not resolved to the satisfaction of the consumers when such complaints were first reported.
The service providers also promised to ensure that complaints are resolved in both the letter and spirit of the recently-reviewed Service Level Agreement (SLA). With respect to services subscribed to through third parties, such as banks, which are not rendered, the meeting resolved that telecom service providers should explore initiating service level agreement with banks to ensure uniformity and speed in the resolution of complaints relating to billing. All parties to the meeting equally agreed that telecom service providers would carry out pervasive consumer education and enlightenment campaigns about their products and services to ensure their subscribers have information they require to make informed decisions and get value for money spent. The Director, Public Affairs at NCC, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, explained that NCC was very pleased with the impressive attendance, participation and the quality of decisions taken at the bi-annual meeting.
“The NCC is therefore determined to continue to work closely with the service providers and other stakeholders in the Nigerian telecom sector in order to improve on the quality of service, and by implication, the quality of consumer experience,” Adinde said.