By Onuminya Innocent The senator representing Sokoto East senatorial district Ibrahim Gobir on Tuesday expressed the need to give attention to people with mental challenges. He stated this at Federal Neuro Psychiatric Hospital (FNPH) Kware, Sokoto state when he paid a courtesy visit to the management of the hospital. The senator called on government to give attention to psychiatric facilities in order to ensure desirable impacts in the administration of mental health across the country. The lawmaker expressed satisfaction with the state of facilities and good managerial leadership of Dr Shehu Sale at FNPH, Kware in compliance with modern standards. ” I am delighted with the level of development so far recorded in the hospital under the leadership of able Board Chairman Dr. Iheanyi Nwachuku, and Medical Director, Dr Shehu Sale. ”I am overwhelmed by the state-of-the-art equipment, manpower and infrastructure in the hospital.
” This has demonstrated Dr Sale’s commitment to the development of the hospital and the speciality which will surely translate to enhanced productivity and efficient services to Nigerian populace as well as overall development of mental health,” Gobir stated. Kware Hospital has good hands, modern tools and facilities, besides being the mist most affordable in the country. Gobir said National Assembly would support the hospital by facilitating more government attention to sustain the laudable initiatives and routine activities. Responding, Dr Sale commended Gobir for the visit which, he said, had demonstrated his concern and urged him to use his position in bring more development to the hospital. The Medical Director said Sen. Aliyu Wamakko and house member Ahmad Kalambaina had facilitated infrastructural projects in FNPH Kware through their constituency projects allocation, which greatly enhanced the hospital’s face-lift. ” FNPH Kware is fully accredited with Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria and met the requirements of speciality training of medical doctors across the country beside, running School of Post Basic Nursing in Psychiatric, ” Dr Sale said. Sale lauded the federal government for supporting the hospital and appealed for release of appropriated funds to the hospital. The medical director called on people to access the facility and cautioned them against seeking alternative therapy and patronizing unprofessional healers adding that accessing mental health at early stage helps to solve the perceived mental challenges. He decried the fact that mental health had not been given adequate attention globally, compared to other areas such as HIV/AIDS and Malaria. Dr Sale along with other directors went round with visiting Senator to inspect hospital wards and other departments.