Gunmen suspected to be herdsmen yesterday, attacked the Adara community in Buda of Kajuru Local Government Area (LGA) of Kaduna State, killing Reverend Alubara Audu and two others. The gunmen also abducted five persons in a neighbouring village. The National President Adara Development Association, Awemi Dio Maisamari, in a statement, lamented over the continued attack on their communities and called on the authorities to deal with the gunmen. According to Maisamari, “the premeditated and unprovoked attack claimed the lives of three people namely Rev. Alubara Audu, 45; with five children; Adamu Tata, 40; with four children and Ishaku Peter, 37, with five children. Furthermore, the following persons were abducted: Sani Peter, 25 and Esther Sani Peter, 20.” “At around the same time, the terrorists also abducted five people from neighboring Kemara Rimi community of Buda Ward. They are: Ojo Aminu, 35; Danfulani Makaranta, 37; Namiji Gwamna, 36; Ali Musa, 36 and Grace Mathew, 16.” “These callous and barbaric attacks sometimes abate but never really stop in Adara community. On Sunday 16th August, 2020, another fatal attack occurred at Kallah village on the banks of river Kaduna. This resulted in the death of Mr. Danladi Abashi, a 50years old farmer who ventured near the villages that were invaded and are still occupied by Fulani herdsmen in the Kallah/Gefe/Libere area of Kajuru LGA. His body was only recovered with the help of the police because the herdsmen disallowed Adara people from even approaching the occupied enclave. “Similarly, the incidents of abductions of innocent people for ransom are also continuing. On 27th August, 2020, five incidents of kidnapping occurred, including that of Daniel Shuaibu and Abednego Paul from their residence at Maraban Kajuru. During the operation, Mr. Sunday Barau was shot and injured and the abductees are still with their abductors because his helpless family has been unable to meet their demands. “Another of the incidents is that of the abduction of Master Pius Gargai who was abducted from their family residence at Maraban Rido. He too is still with the kidnappers because of inability to meet their demands. “Also, on 2nd September, 2020, four persons were abducted from Rafin Roro village in Kasuwan Magani Ward of Kajuru LGA. One of them managed to escape and three are still being held.” “With the continuation of such hostilities by Fulani herdsmen even when various peace moves are being initiated, it is becoming clearer that the purported dialogue is serving as a diversion to enable the attackers to continue their diabolical activities. We are left wondering whether it is worthwhile engaging in such dialogue and peace talks if this continues.” “Finally, the Adara Development Association (ADA) wishes to state that the time for civil and security authorities and even Fulani community leaders to continue feigning ignorance of the perpetrators of these crimes and their whereabouts has since gone. “Also, the challenge thrown by Governor El-Rufai asking for details of occupied villages in Southern Kaduna has since been adequately answered. Any further failure to adequately address these issues will be a confirmation that government is only interested in reeling out rhetoric while their actions and inactions serving as encouragement are speaking loudest,” he stated.