Hyde Energy Limited, a global petroleum trading company with a downstream network in Nigeria, has unveiled its brand of automotive lubricant products. The announcement which was made at their Stakeholders’ Forum held recently in Lagos solidifies the company’s efforts towards expanding its footprint in Nigeria. The forum had key stakeholders including trade partners, distributors, auto garages, haulage companies and spare parts dealers in attendance and provided an opportunity for industry players to discuss global best practices and trends as well as explore the issues and opportunities within the oil and gas sector. During the forum, Hyde Energy presented its lubricants range that cuts across synthetic, multigrade and monograde oils to industrial oils and greases. The lubricants are formulated and blended to the highest standards to meet the needs of consumers across Sub-Saharan Africa for use in their industrial and transport machines including but not limited to petrol and light diesel engines, industrial and heavy-duty diesel engines and special purpose engines. Commenting on the launch of the lubricant product range, the Chief Executive of Hyde Energy, Oladimeji Edwards said, “Hyde Energy was established in 2012 as an indigenous global petroleum company to meet the growing energy needs of Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa. In line with our vision to enrich customer experience, we commenced operations with a view to ensuring quality and excellence in the products and service delivery we provide to all stakeholders”. “We have now expanded our portfolio and network to ensure we are providing revolutionary solutions and creating value throughout the oil and petroleum products value chain as we provide energy to keep you going from one day to the next”, Edwards added. Also commenting at the forum, the Regional Sales Manager and Head of Lubricants, Hyde Energy, Victor Nwakaku said that, product and service offerings at Hyde Energy are designed based on the company’s deep understanding of the costumers and operating environment. He further said, “At Hyde Energy, we have a strong belief that using the right lubricant is a vital element in auto care, this is why we have devoted our time, expertise and innovation to creating a high quality range of lubricants suitable for all kinds of petrol and diesel automobile engines”. “These lubricants are manufactured under the highest quality conditions using materials that meet global standards. We are confident in introducing the newly launched Luminor and Maximus series to the market, because they were conceived as industry solutions which will guarantee optimum engine performance”, Nwakaku said. The Luminor product range is a passenger car motor oil, while the Maximus range is a heavy-duty diesel engine oil which both feature a series of grades and are packaged in 1litre, 4litre, 5litre and 25litre dark grey, uniquely shaped containers with special safety and tamper-proof features to ensure product quality throughout distribution. The range of Hyde lubricants is carefully formulated to serve numerous benefits including reducing friction and wear, enhancing protection for the machine, keeping temperatures low to reduce the risk of heat-related damage to the machine, improving engine life span, efficiency and reliability culminating in significant cost reduction. The Luminor ZS9 which is at the zenith of the Luminor series was the product in focus at the forum. Being a fully synthetic engine oil with the most advanced protection for all modern engines, the Luminor ZS9 with its prolonged drainage intervals, (lasts three times longer), allows the machine to perform effectively for over 18,000 km resulting in massive cost savings for the customers. It also delivers invaluable benefits including a better high and low temperature viscosity performance at service temperature extremes, better chemical and shear stability, decreased evaporative loss and resistance to oxidation and oil sludge. In addition to this, customers are assured of improved fuel economy, reduced engine wear and increased engine efficiency. Hyde Energy also provides value added services to its lubricant partners including the Hyde Lubricant Monitoring Program which offers Oil Analysis As-A-Service; Lubricants surveys & trainings as well as Marketing support such as branding, POS materials and marketing campaigns. With retail stations located in Lagos, Abuja, Calabar and still expanding, other products included in the Hyde Energy portfolio include Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), Automotive Gas Oil (AGO) and Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG). In addition to this, Hyde Energy also offers customers services such as Lube Bay, Car Wash and Minimart services at its retail stations.