by Bennett Oghifo The new Mercedes-Benz S-Class, in association with global stars Alicia Keys and Lewis Hamilton, celebrated its world premiere recently on the Mercedes me media digital platform. The S-Class is the brand’s centrepiece and stands for the fascination of Mercedes-Benz: legendary engineering and traditional craftsmanship paired with intelligent vehicle innovation, according to the automaker. Occupants experience a sense of ease and well-being inside the new luxury saloon. More than any other vehicle, it stands for individualisation and comfort, design and quality, technology and safety. In other words, individual mobility at the very highest level and the confidence that the S-Class cares for its driver and passengers. The central idea of “Cares for what matters” is at the heart of the communication campaign, in which notable world-class talent such as 15-time Grammy-winning artist Alicia Keys and multiple Formula 1 world champion Lewis Hamilton play an important role. These global stars combine personal excellence with social activism, thereby supporting the central idea. The launch campaign for the luxury saloon starts in December 2020. “The ‘Cares for what matters’ campaign goes to the heart of what truly matters in life. And that’s the people around us – who should always be safe and for whom we would like to have more time. In the new S-Class, we offer our customers the perfect place for that. It creates a safe space of contemporary luxury that can be enjoyed with all the senses, and where we are free to focus on the important things in life. That is our definition of the new S-Class,” says Britta Seeger, Member of the Board of Management of Daimler AG and Mercedes-Benz AG, responsible for Marketing and Sales. “What sets our new luxury saloon apart is its advanced safety and comfort systems as well as services aimed at making our customers’ lives as easy and worry-free as possible. “The focus of the campaign is on the fundamental importance of authentic and responsible interaction that reflects the zeitgeist, today more than ever. With global stars such as Alicia Keys and Lewis Hamilton as ambassadors, we have great personalities who authentically embody the central idea of our ‘Cares for what matters’ S-Class campaign”, says Bettina Fetzer, Vice President Marketing Mercedes-Benz AG. “Both of them use their voices to speak out for others, and take a stand on important issues that shape our society.” American 15-time Grammy Award-winning artist Alicia Keys is an accomplished actress, a New York Times best-selling author, an entrepreneur and a film, television and Broadway producer. She is widely noted as a powerful force in the world of activism. She advocates for causes such as social justice and the fight against HIV/Aids. British Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 driver Lewis Hamilton is a six-time Formula 1 world champion and is active off the race track in a host of social initiatives, including climate protection and campaigning against racism and all forms of discrimination. The 360-degree “Cares for what matters” campaign starts in December 2020 with social media, online and print formats as well as TV ads and further celebrity testimonials.