Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja The Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu, yesterday assured Nigerians that the police would remain neutral and professional in the conduct of the gubernatorial elections in Edo and Ondo States scheduled for September 19 and October 10, 2020, respectively. He said the police were committed to the maintenance of law and order in the forthcoming polls in the two states.
The IG, during a meeting with civil society organisations (CSOs) in Abuja to brainstorm on measures to ensure the conduct of a hitch-free election, stated that the police would deploy all resources to ensure a level-playing field for all parties. Adamu said in view of the potential for violence in the elections, the police had deployed intelligence resources to generate threat analysis, which would be used to protect the electoral process in both states in order to prevent any breakdown of law and order. Adamu said the police acknowledged the contributions of CSOs as key actors in the electioneering process, hence the need for the interactive sessions in view of the upcoming elections.
“The objective is to share knowledge and compare knowledge, especially with regards to experiences with election security in Nigeria. “We shall have discussions on key indicators of key election security threats, especially arming and movements of political thugs, use of inciting statements during political campaigns, the high likelihood of violence, the issue of misinformation and disinformation aimed at heating up the polity,” he added. The Convener, Civil Society Situation Room, Mr. Clement Nwankwo, who led other civil society groups to the meeting, called on the police to provide information whenever the need arises. Nwankwo pledged the support of the CSOs for the police in ensuring peaceful elections in the two states.
He called for more participation of policewomen in election monitoring.
In her remarks, Co-convener, CSO Situation Room, Mrs. Esther Uzoma, noted that women were better managers of crisis situations. Also yesterday, the police stated that as part of the ongoing implementation and operationalisation of the national security policy on community policing, the IG had approved the second edition of the Conference and Retreat for Senior Police Officers. The conference and retreat themed: “Implementing and Operationalising Community Policing in Nigeria” is scheduled to hold in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, between November 16 and 19.