Good things always eventually find their way to those who wait, and better things almost always flow in the direction of those who are competent. This is the narrative that accompanies Senator Gbenga Ashafa on his very recent and very celebrated appointment to the Federal Housing Authority (FHA). The hills on distant lands and streams flowing around the bend all agree that Ashafa’s new role is fitting and well-suited to his unique sweet of abilities.
When news of the appointment was posted on social media by Gawat Jubril, Senior Special Assistant on New Media to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, jaws in high places dropped. After a while, resounding claps—in the form of congratulatory messages—began to permeate social media space. Senator Gbenga Ashafa was appointed the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) of Nigeria—alongside the appointment of AbdulMumin Jibrin as the new Executive Director, Business Development (Commercial, Corporate and Social Housing)—by President Muhammadu Buhari. Without question, this presidential edict is the result of much consideration and a standing testament to the proven efficiency of Senator Gbenga Ashafa. Folks like Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, and Kano State Governor, Umar Ganduje, were the first to publicise their approval of Ashafa’s new mantle, agree that his appointment to the development of the Housing Policy is a plus for the Federal Government, and that Ashafa is just the right man for the role. These seemingly dominating comments are not without basis. Since serving the Nigerian public service as a Youth Corps member in the ‘80s, Ashafa has taken the modalities of government duties as seriously as he would instructions from Up High. This is why his devotion, commitment and dedication landed him better-positioned roles, particularly that of a Senator representing Lagos East Senatorial District. In his senatorial assignment, Ashafa ran the affairs of the Senate Joint Committee on Land Transport, Marine Transport and Aviation, as well as the Senate Conference Committee on the Nigerian Railway Authority Bill. Because the work of Senator Gbenga Ashafa has only grown in scale and depth, it isn’t all that difficult to tie his present-day status as one of the most versatile administrative figures in government, to the old days when he was Director of Planning—in Lagos State government—and then Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Lands Bureau. Senator Gbenga Ashafa has gone far in his public service. This appointment to FHA will take him even further. Indeed, he is the right man for the job—a very round peg in a very round hole.