Timothy Onoja with stage name Timikoda is one of those music artistes in the Nigerian music industry, who
believes that education is most ideal to complement one’s music career. As an afrobeat lover who draws inspiration from life, Timikoda is resilience about personal development. He is currently taking production and sound engineering classes although not for commercial purposes. Of course, he is designing his music in such a manner that it helps him express his art exactly how he feels it before it gets to the professionals. While he says full-time music is applaudable, Timikoda champions education as compatible with music career. The artiste, who has come to terms with the fact that music is a gift and as such it comes easy, reminds entertainers that education is always an advantage. According to him, one’s level of exposure directly or indirectly influences the quality of his music and life in general. In the words of the fine singer, the likes of Mr. Eazi, and Falz among a handful of other artistes who are well read, always have a definite strategy when they sing. It is interesting to note that Timikoda is not just a musician, he is a practising architect and a lover of quality education. He studied Architecture from Caritas University Enugu in 2018 while accumulating more to his credit. Although an indigene of Kogi, Timikoda was born in Bauchi State where he was bred until in 2008 when his family moved to Kogi. There, he completed secondary education. Although still growing in the music industry, Timikoda is not taking a break any time soon. In his perspective, there is no definite formula for life otherwise everyone would have made it big. Now, the singer and song writer holds poor management liable for some established artistes suddenly going off radar or throwing in the towel. While priding his art as undiluted, he expounds that he strives to create a perfect balance with his music. Indeed, Timikoda boasts of his naked love for the Nigerian music industry, which is a reason for him to remain consistent if he must make a hit. Following quickly on the heels of his arrival on the music stage late last year, Timikoda launched his début track, “Ego”, this July. It has been described by man as mindblowing. He does not only love building tuneful notes for music aficionados, he loves building structures – residence or commercial, as his way of expressing his creativity. On the reality of what music fans don’t see, the entertainer highlighted that many music lovers don’t know how rigorous music creation is. He says it takes outstanding artistes a long time to come up with that banger hit that may simply be three minutes long. While continuing that sometimes it comes easy, he noted that one can never take out the place of hard work and sleepless nights in the creative process.