Rebecca Ejifoma The police in Lagos have arrested a 67-year-old man, James
Olajoye, for allegedly defiling a 12-year-old girl who came to spend the just celebrated Sallah holiday with her visually impaired grandfather in the Ejigbo area
of Lagos. The suspect, a commercial tricyclist, was alleged to have defiled the girl four times since she came visiting. One of the occasions as gathered, was right in the victim’s grandfather’s one-room apartment. He was alleged to have gagged her to prevent her from shouting , in order not to alert her blind grandfather. However, over the the weekend, Olajoyetan, a widower, was said to have called the girl, pretending to send her on an errand. Explaining her ordeal, the victim said: “ When I went , I stood in front of his door. He told me to come inside to collect the money. When I did, he shut the door,
pulled off my pants, laid me on the bed, pulled off his trouser, brought out his manhood and laid on me. “While he was doing it I wanted to shout. He hit me severally and covered my mouth”. A neighbour said to be returning from a journey , was alerted by the girl’s cry. Out of curiosity, he peeped through the window, forced the door open, to catch Olajoyetan in the act. He raised the alarm that alerted residents who rushed to the apartment and handed the suspect to the police at Ejigbo Division. During interrogation, the suspect claimed he was under a
spell. He said “ I had a disagreement with a pastor with Christ Apostolic Church, Kajola. He accused me of being instrumental to his leaving the church. Six months ago, he boasted that he would place a spiritual load on my head and ensure I was publicly disgraced. “Since then, I didn’t know what came over me. They claimed I raped the girl four times, but it was only once. My wife died in 2005. I have six children, the
first is 35 years while the last is 17 years. “ I am still shocked that I could lay with a child that is much younger than my last child. When she came in, I gave her N100 and she hugged me. At that point, I lost my sense of judgement”.