The lawmaker representing Anambra Central Constituency in the National Assembly, Senator Uche Ekwunife has facilitated the donation of 100 pieces of electronic tablets to the Federal College of Education (Technical) Umunze, Anambra State, by the Nigeria Communication Commission (NCC). The devices, which the lawmaker unveiled recently, are to boost e-learning at the institution.
Speaking during the presentation of the items to the college, Ekwunife, who is also the Chairman, Senate Committee on Science and Technology, explained that the project was part of the federal government’s efforts to equip institutions with facilities necessary for a seamless migration to e-learning platform, which has become viable due to the COVID-19 pandemic. She also decried the dilapidated state of the access road to the college and called for immediate reconstruction work to save staff and students from prolonged distress.
She described the degraded access road to the college as an eyesore that ridicules the image of the institution, the state and the federal government. Ekwunife commended the Provost, Dr. Tessy Okoli for proving her capacity to pilot the affairs of the college effectively and called for more participation of women in leadership positions.
She said the involvement of women in strategic leadership positions would help to balance gender disparity, as well as bring in the competence needed for efficient service delivery. Ekwunife, also known as Iyom, promised to continue supporting the college and urged the provost and her management team not to rest on their oars in taking the institution to a higher height. Responding, Okoli thanked the senator for providing quality representation of the state in the National Assembly, adding that she is the only political figure from the state that has assisted the college since her assumption of office two years ago. According to the provost, the electronic tablets would support the efforts of the college in digital learning and also complement the ongoing plans to start an ICT Academy in the college. She said various palliative work done on the college road to make it useable have often been washed away by seasonal flood, adding that repeated appeals to the government for the reconstruction of the access road and internal network of roads in the college have not yielded the desired result. She expressed hope that there would be a positive outcome with the support of the senator and other well-meaning individuals from the state and beyond.