By Adedayo Akinwale The federal government has commenced visa processing on reciprocity basis for applicants from countries that have reopened their international airspace and have begun issuing visas to Nigerian applicants. The Consulate General of Nigeria in South Africa, in a statement issued Monday, said the federal government has granted payment waivers to certain categories of visitors/migrants affected by travel restrictions introduced during the coronavirus pandemic. It said: “The Consulate General of Nigeria, Johannesburg, wishes to announce the recommencement of visa processing on reciprocity basis, for applicants from countries that have reopened their international airspace and have begun issuing visas to Nigerian applicants. In this regard, the Federal Government of Nigeria has granted payment waivers to certain categories of visitors/migrants affected by travel restrictions introduced during the coronavirus pandemic. “All visitors/migrants whose permits expired from 23rd March to 5th September, 2020, should provide evidence of confirmed return tickets scheduled to travel out of Nigeria to obtain a free extension to depart on or before 15th September, 2020. “All migrants whose permit/visitor’s pass expired before 23rd March, 2020 shall pay an overstay penalty for the number of days stayed before the lockdown on 23rd March, 2020.” The Consulate General added that all resident migrants whose permits expired outside Nigeria from 23rd March, 2020 would be allowed entry into Nigeria with the expired permits on or before 25th September, 2020. It stressed that such returning holders of expired permits and their dependents are to renew the permits within 30 days of arrival in Nigeria to avoid sanctions under relevant immigration laws. It said that all migrants who processed payments for visa on arrival and all other categories of visas from Nigerian Missions before 23rd March, 2020, are to apply for revalidation and upload a copy of previous payments via CIS-EVISA@IMMIGRATION.GOV.NG not later than 15th September, 2020. The Consulate General said all migrants who obtained visa on arrival pre-approval letters and all categories of visas from Nigerian Missions before 23rd September, 2020, whose approval/visas expired before 5th September, 2020, are also to apply for revalidation without making fresh payments, by uploading copies of the expired Pre-Approval letters/visas via CIS-EVISA@IMMIGRATTON.GQV.NG not later than 15th September, 2020.