By Victor Ogunje The kidnappers of a retired United States of America army officer, Major Jide Ijadare, who was abducted in Ekiti State last Tuesday have demanded the sum of N20 million as ransom to facilitate his release. Ijadare and one of his staff were abducted by gunmen at Ijan Ekiti, Gbonyin Local Government Area of Ekiti State last Tuesday. The former military officer and other victim were kidnapped around 2:05p.m. at his palm oil factory located on Ijan-Ise road. A man identified as a contractor with the factory was shot dead by the assailants during the broad day attack. This information, therefore negates what was being bandied around that the person killed during the abduction was a youth corps member. A member of Ijadare’s family confirmed to journalists via telephone yesterday that the abductors had contacted one of them and demanded such humungous amount as ransom. “Yes, they contacted one of the family members this morning (Wednesday) and made that demand. “Though the matter had been reported to the police since a life was lost, and they are also doing their own bit to ensure that those abducted are released in time,” he said. However, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr. Sunday Abutu, said the command was not aware of any ransom being demanded by the abductors. He said: “We are not aware of any ransom being demanded by the abductors. But our men are in the bush combing everywhere to ensure his release. “The state Police Commissioner, Babatunde Mobayo, had deployed different units of police operatives in the factory and the surrounding forests. “We are assuring the people that the abductees will be released safe and sound, and we appeal to the public to give us useful information that can help our men and other local hunters we are working with.” The retired military officer’s abduction came barely 48 hours after a Director with the Local Government Service Commission, Mr. David Jejelowo, was shot dead by assailants at his residence at Igirigiri, Odo Ado area of Ado Ekiti metropolis.