Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti As part of the drives to inject new blood with fresh ideas into his cabinet, the Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, yesterday inaugurated eight newly appointed commissioners, while he also dropped two from his cabinet. The governor also appointed seven Special Advisers; four of them were part of those who were dropped as commissioners. The former commissioners, who didn’t make the Special Advisers’ list, included Dr. Mojisola Yaya-Kolade of the Ministry of Health, and Hon Gbenga Agbeyo of the Ministry of Environment. Swearing in the commissioners and Special Advisers in Ado-Ekiti, Fayemi urged them to see their new public service roles as an opportunity to serve and not an avenue to enrich themselves. The governor also expressed his immense appreciation to the outgoing executive members for their meritorious service and contributions, especially by committing half of their salaries to the COVID-19 relief fund. The newly inaugurated commissioners are: Akin Omole (Information and Values Orientation); Dr. Oyebanji Filani (Health); Mr. Akin Oyebode (Finance and Economic Development); Olabode Adetoyi (Agriculture and Food Security); Otunba Oladiran Adesua (Housing and Urban Development); Dr. Olabimpe Aderiye (Education, Science and Technology); Alhaja Mariam Ogunlade (Women Affairs and Social Development); Princess Iyabode Fakunle-Okhiemen (Environment and Natural Resources), and Aare Muyiwa Olumilua, who was moved to the Ministry of Investment, Trade and Industries. The Special Advisers are: Mrs Moji Fafure (Gender Empowerment and Social Mobilisation); Prof. Francesca Aladejana (Basic, Secondary and Vocational/Technical Education); (Mr. Foluso Daramola (Governor’s Office); Chief Olusoga Davies (Political Matters); Chief Folorunso Olabode (Community and Rural Development); Tope Ogunleye (Special Projects), and Mr. Ayoola Owolabi (Investment, Trade and Industries). Also inaugurated were Prof Femi Akinwunmi as Chairman of SUBEB and Mr. Febisola Adewale, as member of the Local Government Service Commission. Fayemi, who tasked the new appointees to make ‘delivery’ their watchword, said his administration would strengthen all government institutions and processes with a view to ensuring continuity of development agenda for those coming behind. He said: “We must continue to strengthen our government institutions and processes to ensure we are on course with our collective vision for a greater Ekiti State. This vision was imparted into our hearts and minds by our forebears, and we have done well to document it into the Ekiti State Development Strategy which provides for short, medium and long term plans to develop our state. “We have recently carried out a midterm assessment of this administration and made a few changes in line with our performance and emerging reality towards refining our government agenda and strengthen our team. This accounts for the appointment of new people into various positions of authority in the state. It also account for the re-designation of some ministries and the creation of new bureaus. “To those coming on board, I encourage you to imbibe our ethos which sees public office as a privilege and an opportunity for service, and not an occasion for self-aggrandisement or pecuniary gain. I trust you will ensure that your conduct and performance justify the confidence we have placed in you, and you will be good ambassadors of the administration in your various constituencies.” The governor explained that the last 22 months of his administration has witnessed a revolution in priorities, re-evaluation of values, re-invigoration of public life and a transformation of the way of thinking in a way that promotes good governance and enhances the wellbeing of all Ekiti people.