By Deji Elumoye The Senate on Wednesday asked the Inspector General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, to provide adequate security for traditional rulers in Plateau State in the wake of the reported killing of 10 traditional rulers in the state. The President of the Senate, Dr Ahmad Lawan, made the submission at plenary sequel to a point of order raised by Senator Istifanus Gyang (Plateau North). The Senate President, who condoled with the government and people of Plateau State, called on security agencies in the country to provide security for traditional rulers as well as the people of Plateau State. He said: “Let me on behalf of the Senate send our condolences to the Government and people of Plateau State, particularly Plateau North Senatorial district, where all of these incidents took place. “We pray that the security agencies should provide sufficient security around traditional rulers, as well as for everybody. “The situation requires that we continue to work together with the Executive arm of government until we find enduring solutions to the security challenges which the country faces.” Gyang had, earlier while speaking
under Senate Standing Order 43, lamented the killing of over 10 traditional rulers across the state by suspected herdsmen. He said: “The latest is the killing of Gwom Rwei of Foron, His Royal Highness, Da Bulus Chuwang Jang, who was assassinated at his palace last week, and the burial is due for this Friday. “Mr. President, this trend is quite disturbing, because not less than 10 other traditional rulers have unfortunately suffered death through the same circumstances. This development calls for the need for security to be tightened around our traditional rulers, to ensure that the increasing threat to their safety is averted. “It is also unfortunate that just last week, five of our youths who were resting and having an evening out were brutally assassinated in Vom district, Jos South Local Government Area. All of these developments are providing increasing insecurity in my constituency. “Plateau State and my constituency, which had experienced the return of peace, is suddenly again being visited with these very ugly attacks. And of course, it is common knowledge that the attackers are suspected to be killer herdsmen. “This is very disturbing in a nation where we need to be our brother’s keeper.”