By Sylvester Idowu Chevron Nigeria Limited and Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC)/ Joint Venture has donated a Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) laboratory facility to Warri Central Hospital to support the fight against COVID-19 in Delta State. The provision of the state-of-the-art molecular laboratory testing centre with a brand new PCR machine brings COVID-19 testing centres to two in the state. Also donated to the new centre at Warri Central Hospital were test kits, medical consumables, five air conditioners, refrigerators and a 50-KVA soundproof generating set as well as the renovation of the four-bedroom laboratory building. Speaking at the handing over ceremony recently, the General Manager, Policy, Government and Public Affairs of CNL, Mr Esimaje Brikinn said the gesture was a part of the overall contributions of CNL to the fight against the pandemic. He added that the donation would ensure early detection of COVID-19 cases for isolation and treatment in Warri and environs. “The aim is to support the government in the fight against the spread of COVID-19 in Delta by enhancing early detection of cases for isolation and treatment within Warri and environs. “This is why we’re fully involved in the NNPC-led initiative to provide both tactical and strategic support to the coordinated efforts of government in the fight against COVID-19 in our country by halting its spread,” he noted. Brikinn, who was represented by Area Manager, PGPA Field Operations, Warri, Sam Daibo lauded the leadership of the Delta State government in the coordination of the oil and gas sector’s response in the containment of the virus in the state. The Director of Health Services/CEO Delta State Hospital Management Board and representative of the Delta State Commissioner for Health, Dr Mrs F. E. Omoraka, lauded NNPC/Chevron JV for adding another molecular laboratory testing lab to the one in Asaba. The Chief Medical Director, Warri Central Hospital, Dr Paul Okubor said with the new molecular laboratory, results of COVID-19 samples, which usually takes 72 hours from Asaba, will be provided faster.