Some concerned Nigerians under the auspices of Northern Patriots (NP) have hailed President Muhammadu Buhari and the Security Chiefs for the improvement in the security situation in 19 northern states in the country. According to the group, the series of meetings held between the president and the Security Chiefs have triggered a remarkable turnaround with troops dominating the theatres of war in the North-east region, particularly in Borno State, where a handful of attacks is threatening the peace of the people, as well as the North-west states of Katsina, Sokoto and Zamfara. The Northern Patriots made this known in a report on the security situation across the 19 states signed by its National Coordinator, Nuruddeen Dodo, which was unveiled Tuesday at a press conference in Abuja. While admitting that a lot still needs to be done in Kaduna State to fully comply with the directive of the president, the group noted that from its findings, the Nigerian Army had also recorded tremendous feats in Niger, Kogi and Benue States. NP in the report said: “Since the president met with the Service Chiefs over the security situation in the country following a general outcry over the killings by bandits in the Northwest, the deployment of troop in the areas of operations became upscale and sustained. “The visits of the Service Chiefs to the Northwest generally boosted the morale of troops. While the heat on the criminals was sustained through air and ground operations, many of the bandits have been nuetralised and some have fled. “Also majority of them were arrested or made to flee to other neighbouring countries. The number of arrests was however quite impressive within a few days. “The presence of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.Gen Tukur Yusuf Buratai, at the battlefield has also created great positive effects as it kept the troops pushing harder until they penetrated the fortresses of the insurgents and subdued them in their numbers.” The group noted that there was also high professionalism by the military in carrying out combat operations as there were almost zero civilian casualties while treatment of captured criminals was done according to the United Nations standards. The report further revealed that the sustained citizens’ collaborations between the military and civil police have yielded enormous results and needs to be sustained. It added in the report that political leaders were beginning to find their voices in condemning the criminals and asking them to surrender. NP, however, assured Nigerians that the Nigerian Armed Forces had shown the capacity to defeat the insurgents and should be encouraged by both the authorities and citizens as the end of the terrorists is only a matter of time.