The Junior Chamber International (JCI), a non-governmental organisation with presence in 124 countries which includes Nigeria has launched a Social Enterprise Masterclass (SEM) Cohort 1. Currently in Nigeria, JCI has over 40 Local Organisations of which JCI Eko is one. For 20 years now, JCI Eko has been a leading and proactive breeder of active citizens in Lagos State. They are professionals breeding like minds in becoming catalysts for sustainable development. According to a statement, the SEM is an initiative of JCI Eko targeted at young, budding and established social entrepreneurs who have unique approaches or interventions, which provides sustainable solutions to some of the social, economic and environmental challenges in Lagos State. “SEM is a fully funded training opportunity aimed at building and empowering over 100 social entrepreneurs across all the Local Government Areas of Lagos State who will go ahead to become the catalysts for sustainable change and solution to social problems within the state,” the statement added. According to the 2020 SEM team lead, Asiyanbi, David Tobi, social enterprise is the application of commercial strategies to maximise improvements in financial, social and environmental well-being with the sole aim of promoting, encouraging, and making social change. He explained further that the SEM is an extensive hand of JCI Eko in purposefully raising young social entrepreneurs who wouldn’t be dependent on Government but take action in making the Society a saner place of abode. According to Ibraheem Tiamiyu – the JCI Eko 2020 President, social enterprises exist in nearly every sector from consumer goods to healthcare, community, energy and creative agencies and are creating jobs and opportunities for those most marginalised from the workforce, transforming the communities they work in and making the Sustainable Development Goals a reality. “It’s business for good and when they profit, society profits. The goal of this year’s Social Enterprise Masterclass is to help young entrepreneurs design their business operations to profit for both social impact and survival of the organisation, innovate solutions focusing on community or environmental issues and achieving the SDG goals. “The 2-day even would centre on sessions that span across business and capacity development for social entrepreneurs, perfecting social enterprising ideas, profit maximisation, brand appreciation, fund raising, among others. “The training is slated to take place on the 25th and 26th of this month. It will end with an online graduation ceremony where the over 100 participants will be issued their certificates.”