By Omon-Julius Onabu Delta State Police Command on Wednesday declared wanted a prominent businessman and former minister of state for education, Chief Kenneth Gbagi, for allegedly failing to honour an invitation by the police for formal interrogation into his alleged involvement in the recent dehumanizing treatment meted out to three young ladies and a man. The police said in a statement that they were left with no other option than to declare him wanted and ask members of the public to help in that regards due to the alleged antics of the former minister and governorship aspirant after his invitation by the police authorities. The command said, “Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi was invited by the Commissioner of Police (Mr Afiz Mohammed Inuwa) through the Area Commander Warri and DPO (divisional police officer) Ebrumede Division on 25th September, 2020 for questioning concerning the alleged dehumanizing manner in which he ordered some of his staff to be stripped naked and physically assaulted because of an alleged case of stealing which took place at Signatious Hotel belonging to him. “Kenneth Gbagi personally and severally called and gave the excuse that he had a burial ceremony of his elder sister on Friday 25/9/2020 in which he is a key player, and asked for time to finish with the ceremony on Sunday (and that) thereafter he will report at the State Headquarters on Monday September 28, 2020.” The statement by Delta State Police Command spokeswoman, Mrs Onome Onovwakpoyeya, a deputy superintendent of police (DSP), noted that despite granting Gbagi the favour to appear at other times the he requested were more convenient for him on “humanitarian ground”, the former minister had continued with his cock-and-bull stories why he has not been able to honour the invitation to appear before the state commissioner of police. According to the statement, “These requests were granted on humanitarian ground. On Monday, 28th September, 2020, Kenneth Gbagi called the Commissioner of Police to say that he had a court case to attend to, promising to report at the Police Headquarters in Asaba by 3:00pm; again he was equally obliged. “On the same date, the Commissioner of Police had to call him at about 5:00pm before the same Kenneth Gbagi said that he was on his way to the State Police HQ (headquarters) Asaba. “Sadly and unfortunately, Kenneth Gbagi still failed to report; instead he went into the public space to disparage, blackmail and maligned the person of the Commissioner of Police and the Nigeria Police Force, Delta State Command for insisting on investigating him.” The statement further said rather than honour the police invitation, the former minister, who is also a lawyer, engaged in antics including allegedly disparaging the state commissioner of police and the Nigeria Police Force. “Having failed to honour his promises, Delta State Police Command is left with no option than to declare Olorogun Kenneth Ggagi wanted. “Therefore, members of the public with useful information as to his whereabouts are advised to go to the nearest police station to report for his immediate arrest and handing him over to the Command for thorough investigation/prosecution.” The Inspector-General of Police (I-G), Mr Mohammed Adamu, had ordered the thorough investigation of Gbagi following local and international outcry over the alleged degrading treatment of three female and one male workers in the suspect’s hotel in Effurun, an adjoining community of Warri.