Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has approved the appointment of Mr. Olugbenga Anthony Olaleye as the new chairman for the State Internal Revenue Service, OGIRS. A renowned accountant, auditor, mortgage banker and tax consultant, a statement by the Governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Kunle Somorin, said the new OGIRS boss, comes to the job with practice experience spanning more than 34 years. Somorin said the new OGIRS chairman, “started his career with extensive exposure in Accounting, Audit, and Tax Management Consulting with international firms of Deloitte, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) and Arthur Andersen (now KPMG in Nigeria). “A distinguished Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA), a Fellow of the Chartered Taxation Institute of Nigeria (FCTI) and a John Maxwell (JMT) certified coach. A well-trained Tax, Accounting and Management professional with highly rated qualifications and professional practice and licenses from relevant professional bodies, Mr Olaleye had his first degree in 1984 from the University of Calabar and was the best graduating student in Mathematic/Education Department. ” He qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1989, became a Fellow of ICAN in 1997. He became a Fellow of the Chartered Taxation Institute (FCTI) of Nigeria in 2011. He had two international mini-MBA Certifications from CWC School for Energy and American Management Association (AMA), USA. Gbenga has attended various international and in-country Management Development Programmes with renowned organisations such as Lagos Business School (LBS), Management Centre Europe (MCE), PetroSkills USA, to mention a few, ”, the statements further reads. Mr Olaleye spent 12-year career with Diageo Plc, the parent company of Guinness Nigeria Plc (GNPlc), working across Africa and the United Kingdom, which further gave him deep and extensive international experience. He was the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of South Atlantic Petroleum Ltd. (SAPETRO), an indigenous Upstream Oil & Gas company in Nigeria for over 6 years to April 2016. His major skills cover almost all areas of Accounting, Auditing, Taxation, Management Consulting, Corporate Finance, Receiverships & Liquidations, Project Evaluation, Risk Management, Internal Audit, Controls & Compliance, Strategic Planning and People Development. He is also culturally sensitive to enabling environment and the people. The starement said the Governor wishes Mr Gbenga Olaleye a successful tenure as OGIRS chairman.