Omololu Ogunmade in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari thursday received the newly re-elected President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, and told him that “you make us proud.” Buhari also yesterday in Abuja congratulated the Managing Director of First Bank Nigeria Limited, Dr. Adesola Kazeem Adeduntan (FCA), on his emergence as the recipient of Forbes Best of Africa Award. According to the president’s media adviser, Mr. Femi Adesina, in a statement, the president told Adesina why he gave him the needed support and congratulated him once again, saying nothing succeeds like success. He added: “I congratulate you on your second and final term in office. Congratulations on winning the election. Nothing succeeds like success.” He said he had told many people on the reason he opted to throw his weight behind the AfDB president despite serving the current opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) before his own election in 2015. According to Buhari, Adesina who was visiting Nigeria for the first time after his re-election, is not only a good Nigerian but also a competent human capital. He said after recommending him for the first time, he did so the second time because he made Nigeria proud. “I have told so many people why I backed you. In 2015, at your first term, you were a minister with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government, and I was of the All Progressives Congress (APC). But you are a good Nigerian. “So, I recommended you the first time. You proved to be competent, you made us proud, and I recommended you the second time,” he said. The statement said the president commended Adesina for his support for Africa in general, and Nigeria in particular, disclosing that the infrastructure deficits being faced by the country in the areas of roads, rail and power could not be overcome without support. “There can’t be sustainable development without infrastructure. Our efforts should be seen in the context of lack of resources, but you do your best to support us. I wish you all the best in your final term,” Buhari said. In his submission, Adesina said the AfDB president thanked Buhari and other people for their support, saying he was proud to be a citizen of the country. He also said the AfDB boss recalled how the president received him in June, listened to him and gave him a strong backing. “Home is where dreams are born. Home is where nurturing is provided. It is where support is given for realization of dreams. I am glad to belong here. “When I came in June, you received me, and I shared my successes, and the difficulties facing me. You listened, and said you would stand by me. And you did. “You not only stood behind me, but also beside me. No greater honour for a man than for his Commander-in-Chief to be his Supporter-in-Chief, and his Defender-in-Chief,” he added. The statement said Adesina also said Nigeria gave him air, “when I badly needed it in my lungs,” pledging to always support the country both in his private capacity, and as AfDB President. It added that the AfDB president as a mark of appreciation for the president, solicited for a round of applause for him, “which was truly resounding.” Meanwhile, Buhari also yesterday in Abuja congratulated the Managing Director of First Bank Nigeria Limited, Dr. Adesola Kazeem Adeduntan (FCA), on his emergence as the recipient of Forbes Best of Africa Award. The award will be presented today, September 11, 2020, in New York, United States of America. A separate statement by Adesina, said the president described the award as one attestation again that Nigeria has a surfeit of illustrious professionals in all spheres of endeavour, “who can hold their own in any part of the world.” The statement added: “The Forbes Best of Africa Award is for business personalities with record of creating and building great global businesses that have made far-reaching contributions to the development of Africa. “President Buhari urges Dr. Adeduntan to always hoist the flag of the country proudly, and tell the true Nigerian story to his colleagues and counterparts the world over.”