The President, Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria (APBN), Mr. Olumuyiwa Alade Ajibola, has charged young professionals in the country to advance their creative and innovative talents while also deriving great values from the mentorship of accomplished older professionals in preparation for the future. Ajibola, who gave the advice during the first APBN Young Professionals Virtual Summit, expressed confidence that the essential foundation of bringing together young professionals’ talents and capacities at the summit, promises to provide the much-needed additional propelling force for a very fulfilling future for the Association and its constituents. He said: “In order to make the required impact in national development, Nigerian professionals must not only be seen, they must also be heard.” He reiterated that the vision of the APBN is to continue to encourage the involvement of young professionals across the various professional bodies in its activities through specific innovative programmes. According to him, “Apart from helping to engrain the ideals of the APBN in them early in their professional lives, it is our hope that their youthful drive and ability to innovate will also enrich the gains of the constituents from the Association. “The APBN is ‘your body’ established by our forebears to promote the collective objectives and interests of the Nigerian professionals, created as one Association through its values, propositions, its knowledge power, its capabilities in initiating, reviewing and refining policies to achieve the best in purpose and effects, as well as providing leadership and executive capacities for both the public and private sector programmes.” In his presentation, first National Vice-President, Nigerian Institute of Town Planners, Toyin Ayinde, admonished the young professionals on strategies that will give them enough leverage to improve their careers. He also urged the professionals to seek the help of a mentor, network, raise their standards, identify their goals and build a professional résumé. He said: “One of the most efficient ways to prosper in your chosen profession is to ask for the help of a mentor. Get in touch with an expert who is in the position that you see yourself in the future. Consult with them and take note of their advice and guidance. “Above all, you must be able to get out of your comfort zone to put your mentor’s advice to good use. “Building a successful career takes time, effort, endurance and patience. It is the same thing with building institutions and the professions. If you’re willing to sacrifice some time and you’re willing to get out of your comfort zone, you will succeed.” In his presentation, Modupe Ajibola encouraged professionals to tap into benefits from economic and social impact programmes, both locally and globally. He urged the professionals to leverage on technology, saying: “We live in a world ruled by ideas and information that translates to public and private data.” He however called for professional accountability, saying it will enable Nigerians to qualify for more global jobs without the stigma of fraud or corruption. He also said violators of professional conducts should be held accountable by the professional bodies.