The Chairman of Global Citizen Nigeria, Mr. Tijani Babatunde Folawiyo, and the vice chairman, Mr. Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, have joined the Nigeria Solidarity Support Fund Statutory Board (NSSF). NSSF, a partnership between Global Citizen (GC) and the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), was set up to provide support to the federal government in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Following the first confirmed case of the virus on February 27, 2020, the federal government has initiated measures to control the outbreak but with the country’s overwhelmed health care systems and a burgeoning population, it was apparent that more support was needed, hence the formation of NSSF. Folawiyo is the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the Yinka Folawiyo Group, a conglomerate with interests in energy, agriculture, shipping and real estate. The oil exploration firm, Yinka Folawiyo Petroleum, owns a 60 per cent participating interest in the Aje Oil and gas field on Oil Mining Lease (OML) 113 offshore Lagos. This is the first producing field outside of the Niger-Delta in Nigeria. He founded Folawiyo Energy Limited, a subsidiary of the Yinka Folawiyo Group in partnership with Glencore Energy, which has successfully run a world-class petroleum storage facility with a capacity to store 66,000 MT of petroleum products. He is Chairman of YFPower Limited, ENYO Retail & Supply Limited, a fuels retailing and renewable energy products company. ENYO operates over 85 fuel retail stations across 18 states in Nigeria. He served as a Non-Executive Director of MTN Nigeria, for 18 years from 2001-2019. Folawiyo was a Non-Executive Director of Ecobank Mali for five years from 2000 to 2005 and Access Bank Plc where he retired meritoriously after his statutory 12-year term. In April 2019, he became Chairman of Global Citizen Nigeria, an international movement dedicated to eliminating extreme poverty in the world. He is also the Chairman of Coronation Merchant Bank Limited, Temple Management Company, T1 Marine Services Limited, and Pave Investments Limited. He continues to serve as Director of La Vallee Energy Services Limited. In addition, he serves as Non-Executive Director of Inaugure Hospitality Group based in Abidjan. On his part, Aig-Imoukhuede is a highly respected investor, banker and philanthropist with a track record of major accomplishments in for profit and non-profit endeavors within and beyond Nigeria. He oversees an ecosystem of investments encompassing banking and finance, insurance, technology, industrial and oil and gas sectors. His career in banking and finance spans three decades and has earned him national as well as international recognition including; Commander of the Order of the Niger (CON), conferred by the Federal Republic of Nigeria, for his contributions to the development of banking and finance; Ernst Young Entrepreneur of the Year (West Africa); and African Banker Magazine’s “African Banker of the Year”. He was the Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Access Bank Plc from 2002, overseeing its transformation into one of the top five banks in Nigeria with a presence in the United Kingdom and nine African countries. Under his stewardship, Access Bank was able to grow its customer base from 10,000 (2002) to circa 6.5 million (2013) with 20,000 employees and an asset base of $12 billion. He is a past President of The Nigerian Stock Exchange, founding Chairman of the FMDQ OTC Exchange, and Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Financial Market Dealers Association.