Honour, regard and memory—these are the qualities that are reported to be behind the mausoleum erected in the name of former Oyo State Governor, the late Abiola Ajimobi. Furnished with cool air, bright lights and soft chairs, the graveside of the late political chieftain looks a lot more like a final resting place than anything else. A video recently cropped up on social media showing the mausoleum designed for the late Abiola Ajimobi. Between the many voices simultaneously supporting and spurning the gesture, it is obvious that Ajimobi’s family is intent on showing him the same honour and respect as when he was alive. The luxury mausoleum is unique, with an interior decoration that is both sparse and sparkly. The room itself is fitted with a super air-conditioning system, running on uninterrupted power supply, and regulated based on living conditions. In addition, there are well-placed chairs that are comfy and worth every note spent on them. Then the colours—a fine mixture of gold and milk-brown, white and beige. All in all, a fine place to visit and reminisce. Recall that Abiola Ajimobi passed away on June 25, 2020, as a result of complications following Covid-19 infection. In conformity with Islamic rites, he was buried at his Oluyole country home in Ibadan. While it was as well attended as the regulations against the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic would allow, the family of the late patriarch made sure to celebrate his legacy and accomplishments. Apparently, the mausoleum is an extension of that gesture and a symbol of their love for him. Expectedly, folks have chipped in one thing after another in response to the gesture. On one end are those who sympathise with the family and state that the mausoleum is as resplendent as Ajimobi’s political career and leadership. While the other extreme are those who have stated that the luxury goes against the simplicity that is traditionally associated with Islam, or that the resources expended to set up an expensive graveyard could have been employed to build up the life of someone else. And more and more.