Chinedu Eze
Major Middle East carrier, Emirates has announced that it resumed passenger services to Lagos from September 7 and Abuja September today, to connect the Nigerian destinations to its global network. The airline said the resumption of flights to both Nigerian cities takes Emirates’ African network to 13 destinations, as the airline works hard to help its customers travel safely and confidently, implementing industry-leading health and safety measures at all points of the travel journey. “Flights to Lagos will operate four times a week on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. Flights to/from Abuja will operate as a daily service. Tickets are open for booking on emirates.com or via travel agents. The addition of the Nigerian cities expands the airline’s network to 84 destinations. “Passengers travelling from both cities in Nigeria to the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Asia Pacific can enjoy safe and convenient connections via Dubai, and customers can stop over or travel to Dubai as the city has re-opened for international business and leisure visitors,” the airline said in a statement. In order to ensure the safety of passengers, Emirates said for travellers, visitors, and the community, COVID-19 PCR tests are mandatory for all inbound and transit passengers arriving to Dubai (and the UAE), including UAE citizens, residents and tourists, irrespective of the country they are coming from. Also, Africa’s most successful carrier, Ethiopian Airlines said it resumed flights from Nigeria to its global network of over 70 destinations that are open for flights including Toronto, Washington DC, Chicago, Newark, London, Paris and Manchester, on Monday.
“During the Lockdown Ethiopian Airlines handled evacuation flights from America on behalf the Nigerian government and also to America for the American government. “Before the closure of the airspace, Ethiopian Airlines maintained Flights to Lagos, Abuja, Enugu and Kano but will be flying to only Lagos and Abuja as the approved airports for now. The airline will be providing its known world-class services to passengers while respecting the rules and protocols imposed by the countries,” the airline said.