By Onuminya Innocent The Sokoto State Police Command has confirmed that two of its officers were killed by bandits in an attack carried out yesterday by bandits. A statement issued yesterday by the Command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Muhammad Abubakar Sadiq, identified the victims as an unnamed Divisional Police Officer (DPO) and one Inspector Mohammed Abdullahi. The statement added that one ASP Sani Abdullahi sustained injury on his leg. The statement confirmed that the DCO of Gidan Madi Divisional Headquarters in Tangaza Local Government Area of the state reported the unwarranted bandits attack. “On 17/0/2020, there was an unwarranted armed banditry attack reported by DCO, Gidan Madi Division. “The Divisional Police Headquarters was attacked by a group of about 100 armed men dressed in army camouflage uniform. “As a result of an overwhelmingly heavy exchange of fire, the DPO and one Inspector Mohammed Abdullahi were shot dead, while one ASP Sani Abdullahi sustained injury on his leg”. The statement further said the Commissioner of Police immediately led a team of forces which include: DCP Operations, Commander of PNF and Area Commanders to the scene of the incident. “He assess the situation, held emergency meeting with the sole administrator, district head, heads of sister security agencies with a view to strengthening the security architecture of the area to forestall further attacks and bring the perpetrators to book” The statement however disclosed that a team of investigators led by DCP SCID has commenced investigation in earnest while intelligence report is also being gathered for aerial support operations. The gunmen were also said to have abducted two wives of a prominent businessman in the area. According to sources, the marauders struck around 1am, while the policemen were ambushed and killed while trying to rescue the abductees. Another account said the bandits first stormed the station, killed the DPO, and one inspector of police before abducting the housewives at their residence. It was said that the bandits went away with the guns of the slain officers. The spokesman of the Sokoto State Police Command, Sadiq, had earlier confirmed the attack. “At the moment, it is confirmed that there was an unwarranted attack on the Gidan Madi Divisional Headquarters last night. “I enjoin us all to await further information on the attack at the conclusion of the investigation that had already been directed by the Commissioner who is at the moment conducting an on the spot assessment of the Division, please,” he had initially said.