Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja The Medical and Dental Practitioners Disciplinary Tribunal yesterday began the hearing of cases of alleged negligence brought against two medical doctors, a Consultant Plastic Surgeon, Adeshina Jenrola, and Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, Silas Ochejele. Both doctors are working in Madonna Hospital, Benue State. According to the prosecution, the two doctors were alleged to have committed gross negligence in the management of the case of Rebecca Olatunbosun, who was in the hospital to have her fibroid operated. The prosecution counsel said due to the negligence of the doctors, there were complications with blood transfusion, which ultimately led to the patient’s left wrist being amputated. Speaking with journalists outside the tribunal sitting in Abuja, the prosecution counsel, Sanusi Musa, said the charges have to do with the issue of a patient who went for a procedure to remove fibroid. But she eventually ended up with her hand amputated. According to him, “There are two doctors involved; a Consultant Gynecologist, who did the first test, and the Consultant Plastic Surgeon, who was called to check the hand that was amputated. “It has to do with how the doctors conducted themselves because without any explanation, her hand was amputated; she was not explained to that that would happen. We believe that what happened was in the course of blood transfusion, and that there was negligence which led to infection affecting her hand. “In such a case, the doctors cannot be allowed to go scot-free because she has lost a hand now. Most especially, she is a secretary, and all her work has to do with her two hands. Now she doesn’t have one. This can affect her source of livelihood, and it does not send a good signal about their medical profession.” However, Jenrola pleaded not guilty to the charge against him. His defence counsel, Tarkaa Akula, in an interview, said: “I believe that the prosecution cannot prove their case because from the papers, there is nothing implicating my client.” The charge against Jenrola read: “That you, Dr. Adeshina Jenrola, a registered medical practitioner, practicing as a Consultant Plastic Surgeon, between June 10 and 18, 2009, or thereabouts at the Madonna Hospital, Makurdi, Benue State, while managing one Rebecca Olatunbosun, a female, as a patient under your care, were grossly negligent in her management, as you failed to do all that was appropriate for the management of her-condition, and thereby conducted yourself infamously in a professional respect contrary to Rules 29.4h and 31 of the Code of Medical Ethics in Nigeria, 2008 Edition, and punishable under Section 16 (1) (a) and (2) of the Medical and Dental Practitioners’ Act CAP. M8 LFN 2004 (as amended).” In the case against Ochejele, the charge read: “That you Dr. Silas Ochejele, a registered medical practitioner, practicing as a Consultant Obstetrician and Gynecologist, between June 10 and 18, 2009, or thereabouts, at the Madonna Hospital, Makurdi, Benue State, while managing one Rebecca Olatunbosun, female, as a patient under your care, were grossly negligent in her management, when you failed to supervise and or ensure that her treatment was properly supervised by your subordinates as appropriate for the management of her condition, leading to gangrene of her left wrist and its amputation thereof, and thereby conducted yourself infamously in a professional respect contrary to Rules 29.4h, 43 and 31 of the Code of Medical Ethics in Nigeria, 2008 Edition, and punishable under Section 16 (1) (a) and (2) of the Medical and Dental Practitioners’ Act CAP. M8 U’ N 2004 (as amended).” There are 18 other doctors scheduled to currently be arraigned for various offences ranging from professional negligence in patients’ management to infamously conducting themselves in a professional respect. The hearing is still ongoing.