By Emmanuel Addeh The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has reaffirmed its commitment to the pursuit of a 35 per cent women inclusion in the national company’s workforce. A press release by the corporation’s spokesman, Dr. Kennie Obateru, Monday noted that the Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, spoke when the executive chairman of the Federal Character Commission (FCC), Dr. Muheeba Dankaka, visited him in Abuja. Kyari stated that the national oil company, as a responsible corporate entity, has always provided a level playing field for all, thereby granting equal employment opportunity to Nigerians from all classes and backgrounds. “On the issues around inclusion of the physically challenged, as a matter of fact, today in our employment, we have people in wheel chairs, the blind and other physically challenged. “We are one of the institutions of government with the highest number of women in management,” the GMD stated. Kyari said that contrary to “false claims” in some quarters, each geopolitical zone of the country is represented at the top management of NNPC, stressing that there is fair play in the corporation’s appointments. He said NNPC would continue to work towards achieving the government’s 35 per cent affirmative action of women in public service. He said NNPC would continue to comply with the rules and regulations of the commission on recruitment. The statement noted that the FCC leadership applauded the corporation for ensuring a high level of gender balance in management positions in the corporation. The Chairman of the commission, Dankaka, congratulated the corporation on the recent flag-off of the Ajaokuta-Kano-Kaduna (AKK) gas pipeline project. She said that her commission’s mandate extends to equitable distribution of social and infrastructural amenities, stressing that the AKK project was one that could boost the nation’s economy and wellbeing of Nigerians. The statement also quoted the FCC boss as stating that the recent recruitment by NNPC was transparent and ensured equal opportunity for all Nigerians, adding that the corporation fully complied with FCC guidelines in the exercise.