In this report, Ugo Aliogo writes about an entrepreneur passionate about teaching people how to start, scale and outsource online business In the time of the novel Coronavirus, it has become more crucial to know how to make money online. This is where people such as Chris Orero come in. In addition to selling millions online through popular sites, he has built a community of students who he has helped in starting their own online businesses and learning how to use sites such as Amazon and Ebay to earn an online income without much prior knowledge or training. “I have taught thousands of individuals of all ages how to start, scale and outsource online businesses on multiple platforms such as ebay and amazon through online and in-person training programmes. I have held live in-person-training events for new wholesale businesses,” Chris stated. Chris learned how to manage online content at the start of the internet revolution. He began learning the tools of ebay until he knew the ins and outs of the website. As the world progressed, Chris progressed with it. Once ebay was starting to get left behind, he moved onto learning the tricks of Amazon and other sites. According to him, “I started from the basics of selling on ebay until I perfected it. I was involved in many online communities and groups where I then started to teach others how to do the same thing through training events, online web calls and 1 on 1 personal coaching. I realized that there were other ways to earn income online and saw that Amazon would be the future of ecommerce. Using the skills and knowledge I picked up from ebay, I transitioned to Amazon.” After honing his skills, Chris met his future business partners and their business, Ecom Kingz, was born. Their business specializes in teaching people how to navigate online platforms and make money by doing so. This helps businesses and individuals alike who wish to make money online on third party sites such as Ebay and Amazon. “I hope to be remembered as a coach and a mentor for people who want to create other income opportunities for themselves. As well as an entrepreneur using the digital space to spread information and skill sets on how to be financially independent. With this group, we went on to build educational products and services that have helped thousands of people earn life changing income online,” Chris said. Starting this business was not an easy ordeal for Chris and his partners. He had very little capital on hand to make ends meet and received very little help from others. In addition, it required a major life change from Chris as he moved across the country to make the business possible. “I started with only a four thousand dollar line of credit. And I had to start my business from scratch when Ebay changed their entire platform! I also had to move across the country away from family in Florida to California,” he noted. However, the business is now a notable success and has helped thousands of people and made millions of dollars for Chris and his partners. Chris’ story is exceptional because he started out knowing very little about the field in which he now works. He hopes to keep going and continue to help people learn the tools that he learned. “Ecomkingz has generated over 5 million dollars in sales the first year it was launched. This organisation also has launched educational content to help thousands learn how to utilize online selling platforms to create extra streams of income. I practice what I have taught on a daily basis, and I have helped build communities of thousands of individuals. All of this was done with no prior experience. I just learned and perfected it through the mentors I had,” added Chris.