Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja The Emeka Offor Foundation (EOF) has donated two 40 feet containers of Personal Protective Equipment (PEP) to the Nigeria Police Force’s Medical Service and the Nigerian Army Medical Corps to assit them in the fight against COVID-19. A statement issued to newsmen in Abuja by the Coordinator of the EOF, Mr. Tonny Obi, said the consignments were handed over to the beneficiaries on yesterday in Oraifite, Anambra State. He revealed that the Federal Medical Centre, Yola in Adamawa State also benefitted from a consignment of another container loaded with medical equipment and supplies. “The consignment contains some of the PEP needed in the fight against COVID-19 and the beneficiaries desire same more than ever before. “The situation presented by the ravaging COVID-19 scourge portends that all hands must be on deck to assist the Government of Nigeria in fighting the scourge. This donation therefore is our modest contribution to the national humanitarian effort. “The Nigerian Army and the Nigeria Police Force as First Responders deserve the Equipment and Supplies at this period of national emergency. Those who protect us need protection themselves,” Obi said. He also commended the beneficiaries for their strategic interventions in the fight against the COVID-19 and urged them to ensure that the equipment and supplies were put to proper use. The coordinator assured that the EOF would continue to make necessary interventions in the health, education and empowerment sectors. He also thanked those who partnered with the foundation for their invaluable support. Obi also stated that 11 containers of medical equipment had been delivered to the Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University Teaching Hospital, Awka, the National Orthopedic Hospital, Enugu, the Federal Medical Centre, Yenagoa and the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital, Maiduguri. Other benefitting institutions were the Gombe State Specialist Hospital, the Federal Medical Centre, Katsina, the Kebbi State Medical Centre, Kalgo and the Leko Abdurrahman Hospital, Duara in Katsina State.