Seriki Adinoyi in Jos The Chairman of the Plateau State COVID-19 Taskforce and the state Governor, Simon Lalong, has directed that all entry and exist routes into the state be totally closed from April 2, 2020, to complement the measures put in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the state. Addressing journalists in the state, the State Secretary to the Government (SSG) and Coordinating Secretary of the taskforce, Professor Danladi Atu, said the governor gave the directive after a careful assessment of the situation, adding that “as from 6 a.m. on April 2, 2020, no one will be allowed to come in or leave the state.” Atu reaffirmed that so far, there was no recorded case of the virus in the state, even though some suspected samples have been taken for examination, none has turned out positive. He added that the taskforce has continued to enforce regulations earlier issued, noting that so far, there was substantial compliance while the state government was working to ensure total adherence by all citizens. Expressing concern that transport operators were yet to fully comply and still carry passengers the way they previously did before the outbreak of the virus, Atu said they would be called upon for further engagement where they will be issued the last warning. “Some religious organisations that flouted the order of not gathering of more than 50 people last week have been invited by security agencies and have apologised and have been made to vow not to violate government orders again.” “There is also enhanced sensitisation particularly at the grassroots level as we have engaged stakeholders cutting across all sectors in the state,” the SSG stated. He said all local government authorities have also keyed into the work of the state taskforce and are replicating it at that level. Atu threatened that the state would not hesitate to shut down any religious organisation or group that disregards the order, warning that food vendors and traders in food items should henceforth maintain the five-metre distance directive.