Osun State Government Wednesday raised the alarm over the influx of Zamfara State indigenes into the state. This was disclosed by the Deputy Chief of Staff to the State Governor, Mr. Adeyanju Abdullah Binuyo, who said the state government was aware of the influx but urged the residents not to panic as adequate security measures had been put in place to arrest the situation. Binuyo further disclosed that all northern youths who had escaped into the state by hiding in trucks carrying essential goods had been tracked down by the government and would be sent back to their home states. He disclosed too that the state government had mandated the Amotekun Corps to effectively man all the entry points and ensure that all trucks bringing essential goods into the state are properly checked and monitored and escorted out of the state after offloading their goods. “Government is aware of a huge influx of non- Osun residents into the state, especially from Zamfara State. They were coming majorly through the Ondo axis, accompanying trucks that are carrying food materials purportedly to be sold around the South West generally. “The intelligence that we’ve gathered in the last few days is that they usually have two or a maximum of three people attached to a truck to assist in discharging the goods. But now we have sometimes ten of them hidden among the goods. “Sometimes the trucks would stop and drop some of them off along Ife express road where they are received by their fellow northerners already resident in the state. “The government has been receiving a lot of such reports, most especially now that the Amotekun has been properly set up. This portends a great danger, especially at a time like this when Osun is doing everything to avoid community transmission of COVID-19.” This is not the time to be reckless and allow safety or security breaches at our borders. “The newly inaugurated Amotekun with the support of the police and army have been mandated to identify and man all the entry points, carry out proper checks on the trucks coming in the name of carrying food or relief materials and make sure that anyone found hiding in these trucks are immediately returned to their states,” Binuyo stated