Ebere Nwoji The AXA Group, the parent body for AXA Mansard Insurance Nigeria, said it has earmarked fresh €5 million as part of philanthropic research funding to eradicate the COVID-19 pandemic in the world. The Chief Executive Officer, AXA Group, Thomas Buberl, while announcing the funding said: “At a time when intensive care units around the world are under increasing pressure, AXA Group has partnered with Fund 101, an organisation that federates more than 1,200 intensive care units across 60 countries, to share and accelerate improvements in therapeutic protocols.” He said in France, AXA Group purchased two million masks, which was given to the medical system whilst also helping health workers by financing their meals. He said in addition, AXA Group has gone a step further in its commitment with 101 Fund by launching a global solidarity challenge, tagged AXA Solidarity Response, with its employees to support 1,200 intensive care units in 60 countries including Nigeria. According to him, the challenge campaign, which would run from April 7th to June 30th, 2020, would give each AXA employee the opportunity to generate a donation of 5 Euros, financed by AXA, to 101 Fund by publishing a solidarity message on their personal Twitter or LinkedIn or Instagram account, enabling them to also take action. Buberl said, “The world is going through a crisis that will stand in collective memory. In an unstable environment, AXA has been fully mobilised since the outbreak of the pandemic to respond to two challenges: the health emergency, by protecting its employees and clients, and the economic and social emergency, by ensuring the continuity of a business that is essential to society. “In line with our mission, and consistent with the actions taken by public authorities around the world, we are announcing today new commitments to reinforce the impact of initiatives already underway”, Buberi stated. He also said AXA Mansard has aligned with the group’s resolve to see the COVID-19 pandemic eradicated with its donation of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) worth millions of Naira to the Lagos State Government, College of Medicine & University College Hospital, Ibadan (UCH) and Nigeria Centre for Disease Control at the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja, adding that the company has meaningfully responded to the fight against the disease, having also donated life insurance cover for 100 medical professionals across Lagos, Abuja and Ibadan. Also, the Chief Customer and Marketing Officer, AXA Mansard, Jumoke Odunlami, said, since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, AXA has been at the forefront of educating its customers and community about the precautions to take.