Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja The Sir Emeka Offor Foundation has donated two 40 feet containers of Personal Protective Equipment (PEP) to the Nigeria Police Force Medical Service and the Nigerian Army Medical Corps. A statement issued to newsmen in Abuja recently by the Coordinator of the Foundation, Tonny Obi said the consignments were handed over to the beneficiaries on Tuesday in Oraifite, Anambra State. He revealed that the Federal Medical Centre Yola, Adamawa State also benefitted from a consignment of another container loaded with medical equipment and supplies. “The consignment contains some of the PEP needed in the fight against COVID-19 and the beneficiaries desire same more than ever before. “The situation presented by the ravaging COVID-19 scourge portends that all hands must be on deck to assist the Government of Nigeria in fighting the scourge. This donation therefore is our modest contribution to the national humanitarian effort. “The Nigerian Army and the Nigeria Police Force as First Responders deserve the equipment and supplies at this period of national emergency. Those who protect us need protection themselves,” he said. He also commended the beneficiaries for their strategic intervention in the fight against COVID-19 and urged them to ensure that the equipment and supplies are put to proper use. The coordinator, who said the Sir Emeka Offor Foundation will continue to make necessary interventions in the health, education and empowerment sectors, thanked partners of the foundation for their invaluable support. The statement said so far, 11 containers of medical equipment had been delivered to the Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University Teaching Hospital Awka, National Orthopedic Hospital Enugu, Federal Medical Centre Yenagoa and the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital Maiduguri. Other benefitting institutions are Gombe State Specialist Hospital; Federal Medical Centre Katsina, Kebbi State Medical Centre Kalgo and Leko Abdurrahman Hospital, Duara (General Hospital) in Katsina State.