*As Chinese FA proposes 30 per cent wage cut for players Duro Ikhazuagbe with agency report The effect of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on sport has caused Chinese Football Association (CFA) to propose 30 per cent wage cut for players in its top flight, the Chinese Super League. Nigeria’s international, Odion Ighalo who is enjoying his five-month loan spell at Manchester United will most likely take a massive pay cut in the region of £120,000 if he returns to Shanghai Shenhua. Ighalo who is reportedly on 300,000 pounds a week deal at Shanghai Shensua, was recently offered a new contract that will pay him 400,000 pounds a week. A 30% cut on his new deal would mean he will forfeit 120,000 pounds a week. According to China’s leading newspaper The People’s Daily, CFA has proposed to club to slash wages of players and coaches by at least 30 per cent to cut costs because of the coronavirus. The People’s Daily said that the CFA is now awaiting feedback from teams in the top-tier Chinese Super League (CSL) and the two divisions below. The CSL season was supposed to begin on February 22 but was indefinitely postponed after coronavirus emerged in central China in December, before spreading worldwide. “After the opinions are collected and revised, the Chinese Football Association will report to FIFA and other relevant departments,” the state-run newspaper stressed. “It is understood that the target of the Chinese Football Association (wages cuts) does not include youth players and ordinary employees with relatively low salaries,” the newspaper added. The CSL enticed foreign coaches and players in recent years with huge pay packets. Shanghai SIPG’s Brazilian attacking midfielder Oscar is one of the best-paid players in the world on an estimated $27 million a year. Temporary wage reductions in football are a hot topic with clubs facing financial challenges because of the pandemic, which has seen most leagues indefinitely suspended. Arsenal became the first English Premier League club to agree a pay cut on Monday with manager Mikel Arteta and players accepting a 12.5 percent reduction in salary. Clubs in Europe’s other top leagues, including Lionel Messi’s Barcelona and Cristiano Ronaldo’s Juventus, have similarly cut wages. There is still no confirmed start date for the CSL but there are claims it could now begin in late June or early July.