The Osun State Governor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, has set up a 21-man Food and Relief Committee, which is made up of eminent Nigerians, to cushion the effect of restriction placed on human and vehicular movements across the state as part of measures to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the State. The committee members are Mr. Tunde Badmus, Mr. Adebayo Jimoh, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, Pastor Matthew Asimolowo, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi Ojaja I, General Alani Akinrinade (Rtd), Mr. Tunde Ponle, Rt. Hon. Patricia Etteh, Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi, Sir Demola Aladekomo, Rt. Hon. Lasun Yusuff, Dr. Wale Babalakin and Dr. Segun Aina. Others members are Mr. Yussuf Alli, (SAN), Mrs. Folorunsho Alakija, Mr. AbdulKabir Aliyu, Dr. Deji Adeleke, Mr. Iyiola Omisore and three former governors of the state, Chief Bisi Akande, Mr. Olagunsoye Oyinlola and Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. A statement issued by the Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Wole Oyebamiji, said the committee would be chaired by Badmus while Mr. Adebayo Jimoh would serve as the secretary. Oyebamiji said as efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 continue with intense devotion, it had become necessary for the state government to set up Relief and Humanitarian Banks across the state, adding that “the state appreciates its supportive friends, donors and partners, who have contributed to the project, including those who have pleaded to remain anonymous.” He said: “Osun has limited means yet unlimited needs to fulfill at this critical time and is, therefore, calling on its sons and daughters and also well meaning Nigerians to assist it in the provision of social relief to our people, and those who have been and will be impacted by the precautionary measures to curb the spread of the rampaging virus. “Without doubt, the outbreak of the pandemic called COVID-19 will leave a strain on our economy, and the possibility of having a food crisis remains an implication of the various emergency responses to the disease. “The state government, therefore, calls on indigenes of Osun across the nation (and beyond) and well-meaning Nigerians to kindly pitch in to support the state with social relief items ranging from food to cash, towards the enhancement of the food bank that the State is growing at the moment.”