Rebecca Ejifoma The Lagos State Police Command has arrested an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Adebayo Ojo and Sergeant Adeleke Mojisola for extorting a lady and impounding her vehicle in a video that went viral on social media. Police officers have also arraigned 202 suspects engaging in physical exercise in a large number, thereby violating the stay-at-home directives of the state government. The suspects, aged between 15 and 42, were said to have been arrested playing football on major streets in Lagos State. The two officers were arrested after the attention of Lagos State Police Command was drawn to a video where the lady alleged that her vehicle was impounded by the Divisional Traffic Officer (DTO) Agbowa Division and a female sergeant. In a statement made available to THISDAY and signed by the Police PRO, DSP Bala Elkana yesterday, it said after analysing the video, operatives identified the officers mentioned and that they were arrested. Elkana said: “The Commissioner of Police Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu has ordered an in-depth investigation into the case while appreciating the courage of the complainant and other well-meaning citizens who forwarded the video to our social media page. “We urged the complainant to take a further step by reporting at the Command Headquarters Ikeja to enable us conclude the investigation.” He said members of the public will be updated on the outcome of the investigation” Meanwhile, police officers have also arrested 202 suspects having exercise in a large number, thereby violating the stay-at-home directives of the government. The suspects, aged between 15 and 42, were said to have been arrested playing football on major streets in Lagos State. They were arrested along Iju, Sabo, Ikeja, Itire, Ikotun, Ogudu, Akinpelu, Maroko, Alapere, Anthony, Orile, Owode Onirin and Ilemba Hausa areas. The Police PRO, Elkana, in a separate statement made available to THISDAY yesterday, said the suspects were arraigned in Lagos State Special Offences (Mobile) Court on one-count charge of violating the social distancing directives of Lagos State Government contrary to Regulation 8(1)( a) &(b) and 17(1)(i) of Lagos State Infectious Disease (Emergency prevention) Regulation 2020. Elkana added: “It is an offence punishable under Section 58 Public Health Law Cap P16 Laws of Lagos State, 2015.” Among the suspects charged, 189 pleaded guilty to the charges while 13 pleaded not guilty. At the end of the trial, the suspects were found guilty as charged and ordered to pay N10,000 each as fines. He added: “They are also sentenced to two hours community service, which was supervised by officials of social welfare.” The PRO urged Lagosians with information or complaints regarding non compliance to call: 09010512285, 09010512286, 09010512287 and 09010512288.