The Institute of Information Management (IIM) has partnered Data Management University of USA to enhance data governance and management in Africa. President/Chairman of the Governing Council of IIM-Africa, Dr. Oyedokun Ayodeji Oyewole, who disclosed the partnership deal, said the partnership became important, as effective data governance strategy becomes more essential for the survival and sustenance of government and businesses, owing to the increasing importance of data, imposition of various data regulations coupled with sudden COVID-19 Pandemic. He said there was need to ensure that the right policies, processes, technology and people were in place to effectively manage organisation’s data while complying with legal and regulatory requirements. According to Oyewole; “As part of the Institute of Information Management (IIM) Africa’s commitments towards ensuring global best practices, lessons learned, compliance, competence, research, standards and certification in the field of data and information management/governance, has entered into a long-term partnership to bring the finest data management training to our industry across Africa, as we officially announce our professional alliance with the DataManagementU.com. “The alliance is expected to provide members of the Institute and other professionals across Africa, high standards, internationally-recognised learning, education, and certification.” Speaking on the partnership, the President, EWSolutions, David Marco, stated: “We have truly enjoyed getting to know IIM Africa. I believe that working with wonderful people is the key to a great partnership. We are very excited to work with you and your team as well”. IIM Africa is the premiere International Information Management Professional Institute, offering accredited membership to professionals from different disciplines, for an opportunity to boost their profile, access lessons learned, business and career prospects, giving them an edge over their peers. The IIM Platform also offers networking opportunities for employment, projects, business development, access to top players in the Information Technology (IT), business world, and government.