By Ernest Chinwo The National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN) has urged Nigerians to adhere strictly to the health advisory published and announced by the relevant health authorities such as WHO, Federal Ministry of Health and NCDC, to manage and contain the spread of the Coronavirus. In a statement signed by NIMN President/Chairman of Council, Tony Agenmonmen, the institute said with unity, Nigeria would defeat the disease. According to him, it will be stating the obvious that the increasing cases of COVID-19 infection globally, and in Nigeria in particular, is alarming, stressing that this was creating heightened apprehension and fear as the end to the scourge seems not to be in sight. He however said this was not the time to give in to despondency, surrender to helplessness, and resign ourselves to fate. “Rather, this is the period to dig deep into our reservoir of courage and resilience, and be resolute in our collective avowal to confront the monster challenge of Coronavirus pandemic. Last time, together we defeated Ebola. This time, united, we can also defeat Coronavirus,” he said. Agenmonmen said the restrictive measures announced by the federal and various state governments to combat the pandemic would no doubt cause great hardship and inconvenience to Nigerians, but they represent necessary sacrifices they had to make in the wake of the serious challenge posed by CONVID-19. He said, “We note and commend the various palliatives already announced by the federal government. We urge the government to ensure that these palliatives are not hijacked and that they reach the intended recipients. We further urge the government to do even more in alleviating the impact on the significant population of our people whose daily means of livelihood has been pulsed as a result of the various restrictions. “We urge the Federal Ministry of Information, through the National Orientation Agency to live to the challenge of educating our people, especially those in the rural areas, about the pandemic and the preventive steps to take.