*  Sanwo-Olu warns against breach of restriction order Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja, and Segun James, Rebecca Ejifoma in Lagos The lockdown on Lagos, and Ogun states as well as the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) yesterday grounded activities in the the affected areas. THISDAY gathered that right from the border of Lagos and Ogun states at Iju-Ishaga, some policemen and LASTMA officials were around asking the few motorists on the roda to identify themselves and their destination. The Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in a short statement issued yesterday warned residents against violating the sit-at-home order. At Agege, there was complete lockdown as no movements were noticed. The same situation took place in Ikeja where the heavy presence of security agents deterred movement in that direction. At Ovba and Abule-Egba, movements in the inner streets were noticed but because of the police stations located within the vicinity, movements on the highway were minimal. But in the backstreets of Obawole, Olowosokedile Ojodu-Berger, it was free movements even as some beer parlours took the opportunity the make brisk business. The main highway between Ojodu-Berger and the old tollgate at Ojota were no-go areas due to heavy security presence. The same situation applied to Alausa area where the secretariat of the state government is located. In Awolowo Market in Mushin, thousands of shoppers mingled as the buy everything they could. The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Police Command, Mr. Hakeem Odumosu has also stated that some major markets in the state were complying with the lockdown issued by the federal government. Some of the places visited, according to the CP during a briefing, included: Maryland, Ojota, Ketu, Mile 12, Owode – Onirin, Majidun, Ogolonto, Agric, Ikorodu and Ojodu – Berger, Magodo. In all there was total compliance. The CP, however, added that some contingents of police and army officers were on the enforcement of the directive on shutting down Lagos, adding that there was also a team of RRS officer dispatched to different parts of the metropolis. In their visit to several places, a Deputy Commissioner of Police, Olatunji Disu enlightened some youths at Ikosi Road and Majidun, who barricaded the roads and played football. The DCP advised the youths to observe social distancing, imbibe the culture of regular hand washing in order to stop the spread of COVID-19. He further urged them to return to their houses, emphasising that the essence of the sit-at-home order is to minimise social interactions. As the 14-day stay-at-home order imposed by the federal government on the FCT commenced yesterday, activities were grounded to a halt. Parts of Asokoro, Nyanya, Wuse 2, Jabi and Central Business District were virtually deserted.