Ugo Aliogo Global shapers community, Lagos Hub has partnered Art House Contemporary to provide support for vulnerable communities in Lagos State. According to a statement signed and made available to THISDAY by the curator of the Global shapers community, Lagos Hub, Adeyanju Folarin, from the onset of the COVID-19 lockdown directive in Lagos, the organisation has been raising funds to provide relief to some of the most vulnerable people in the state. The statement also stated that: “As well as being a health crisis the COVID-19 pandemic has had a devastating effect on the livelihoods of some of the poorest in the population, incapacitating many from being able to provide even the most basic of necessities for their families.” Folarin in the statement expressed delight to partner with Arthouse Contemporary, adding that in external donations, they have raised over 1 million naira to facilitate the distribution of care packages to at-risk communities. The statement further explained that Arthouse Contemporary played an instrumental role in Global shapers community, Lagos Hub fundraising effort. According to the statement: “The organisation has held a series of auctions in which the full proceeds of the pieces sold were donated to our food distribution initiative. These funds have been used to create relief packages containing food, non-perishables and reusable masks that were in the first phase, distributed to the widows displaced from the Otodo Game Slum. In partnership with the Isodokan Foundation Give Back Nigeria, and Shuttlers, many of these women who have now moved to Ikota were beneficiaries of these materials that are in vital need at this exceptional time.” Folarin added that in line with the organisation’s impact area of equity and inclusion, “we believe that regardless of the situation everybody should have access to basic needs like food, medical supplies; hence our action.” The Founder, Arthouse Contemporary, Mrs. Kavita Chellaram, said: “At this moment, it is so important for us to come together as a community and support each other. Arthouse Contemporary is grateful to find a partner in Global Shapers, Lagos Hub, who are able to catch such a wide net of support across Lagos. Through our online charity auction and donations from valued clients, we are able to offer much needed support with food, medical supplies and hot meals during this time when people are out of work.”