Michael Olugbode in Maiduguri Borno State has recorded another COVID-19 death as the state begins a total lockdown on Wednesday night. The indigene of the state brought from Gombe state died in transit, bringing the number of COVID-19 deaths to two in the state. Addressing the media on Wednesday, the
Deputy Governor and chairman of the high powered response team, Alhaji Umar Kadafur, disclosed that a total of 64 tests had so far been carried out on persons believed to have had contacts with Borno’s index case, from which 50 persons had tested negative, while nine tested positive. He said five results were being awaited from the 64 tests carried out, while 11 additional samples had been collected from Pulka where the index case emanated from. The deputy governor said the samples taken from Pulka would be sent for testing. He said the nine positive cases had been captured by the National Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, in its national update released on Tuesday night. The Deputy Governor said on a sad note, that an infected indigene had died. The citizen who was transferred from Biu to Maiduguri, had tested positive in Gombe, after his return from Lagos. He said though he died in the state, his death will remain under Gombe in NCDC update since he was tested there. The deceased died at the age of 41. He was said to have been hit hard by the infection before he was moved to the centre. Kadafur said a total of 144 persons had been identified and traced by surveillance team. The lockdown commenced on Wednesday night, after the state governor imposed a-14 day statewide lockdown. The deputy governor said security officials would enforce the lockdown by using lawful means to restrict all movements. He said exemptions will be to persons who will be on essential services. The Deputy Governor called on residents not to stigmatize persons infected with COVID-19 or their families, noting such stigmatization will heighten resistance of patients from being moved to government isolation and treatment centres. He called on citizens to show empathy to infected persons rather than show disregard for them. Information Commissioner, Babakura Abba Jato, in his comments, announced that coalition of civil societies in the state had set up a situation room as part of its contribution. He announced the following emergency phone numbers: 09072127272 and 09068685158 through which citizens can make contacts on medical issues relating to Covid-19.