By Femi Solaja More tributes have continued to pour in for late Mallam ABBA Kyari, the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari who died and was buried on Saturday, April, 2020. The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), yesterday expressed shock at the passage of Kyari, describing it as a big loss to the federation and the nation. “Mallam Abba Kyari’s death is a big loss to the NFF, Nigerian Football family and the entire country as a whole,” NFF’s Director of Communications, Ademola Olajire, said. The NFF spokesman stressed that the football industry in the country has lost a friend. “Nigeria’s football industry has lost a friend and a great man who showed tremendous interest in the progress of the country’s game. He was, indeed, a colossus.” Olajire said the NFF retains abiding fond memories of Mallam Kyari’s love and support for the various National Teams, accentuated by the passion, energy and resolve with which the Cambridge –educated lawyer and former banking titan attended to, and presented to President Buhari, matters concerning the teams. “The NFF never had reason, even for one day, to doubt Mallam Kyari’s commitment to the development of Nigerian football and the National Teams. He had keen interest in the teams and treated matters concerning them and Nigerian football generally with his well-known empathy and utmost sense of duty. “In his interactions with the leadership of NFF and even the teams, Mallam Kyari was an embodiment of simplicity, humanity and integrity. His personal presence at the airport in Abuja to receive the victorious Super Falcons’ contingent to the Women Africa Cup of Nations competition in Ghana in December 2018 only underscored his passion and keen interest in matters of the National Teams and Nigeria football. “We loved him, but Almighty God loves him more. We can only pray that God grants his soul eternal rest and also grants his immediate family, President Buhari, top officials of government, his friends and indeed the Nigerian Football family the fortitude to bear the big loss.”