Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City The Founder and General Overseer, Believers’ Love World, aka Christ Embassy, Dr. Chris Oyakhilome has inaugurated a N1 billion Faculty of Engineering building at the Benson Idahosa University (BIU), Edo State. Oyakhilome had in 2016, promised to donate N1 billion towards the construction of the engineering building.
At the inauguration ceremony, the cleric said the donation was not only towards contributing to the actualisation of the dream of late Archbishop Benson Idahosa, but also an opportunity for him to appreciate the founder’s contribution in his life. Oyakhilome, who commended the late founder’s family for keeping his legacy, said what he has become today was shaped by Idahosa. “So I didn’t think I was doing something other than expressing my appreciation. I took the opportunity he afforded me to say thank you.
“I am one grateful person, grateful for what Idahosa was doing. Coming here, I thought about the legacy of Idahosa, I always have it in mind that I am his legacy. We are part of his fruit. “I count myself lucky for having the opportunity to celebrate him. Idahosa gave me a picture of what I will become today before he passed on. “Idahosa had always told us to support the poor and the government, he said this knowing that the government is not poor. He taught us how to give. We are the legacy of his ministry, life, work and message, we are taking this message everywhere,” he said. Oyakhilome appealed to everyone to key into the legacy of the late archbishop by contributing to actualise his dream university.
“It is our university, a university that we all need and we just do what we have to do to have it.” Also speaking, the Chancellor of the institution and wife of the late cleric, Archbishop Margaret Idahosa said she never had doubt about the actualisation of the university even when some people expressed fear that it will be a tall dream after the demise of the founder. “Nobody ever thought that BIU will be a reality. I thank God for people like Chris Oyakhilome and others who have made this dream a reality.
Similarly, the President of the university, Mr. Feb Idahosa said BIU remains a legacy that was built by all, including the students and the likes of Oyakhilome.