Kemi Olaitan in Ibadan and James Sowole in Akure The Governor of Oyo State, Mr. Seyi Makinde and his Ondo State counterpart, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, have described the demise of the Second Republic Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Chief Richard Akinjide (SAN), as the end of an era and a huge loss to Oyo State, the legal profession, the Federal Republic of Nigeria and indeed, the world at large. Makinde, who described the demise of Akinjide as the loss of a gem and a shining light, was saddened by the death of the foremost legal luminary. The governor of Oyo State said in a condolence message made available through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, that Akinjide was a legal luminary who served his state and the entire country to the best of his ability. He maintained that the former attorney general quit the stage at a period his wealth of experience and robust versatility in history, politics and law were needed to offer guidance to the current generation of Nigerian leaders. Makinde said: “The news of the death of our father, leader and one of the last men standing among the foremost politicians of the country, Chief Richard Akinjide, came to us as a shock. “This is because Baba, for those who know him or has seen him in recent time, did not show any sign of slowing down; he continued to lead intelligent and history-laden conversations, offered golden advice on governance and leadership and remained a great pillar of experience in politics and law. “His death, no doubt, is a huge loss to Oyo State, Nigeria and indeed, the world, because he was an exemplary indigene of Ibadan and Oyo State and a detribalised Nigerian, who served the country to the best of his ability and a citizen of the world. Akeredolu, on his part, said the passing of the former President of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Chief Richard Akinjide, represented a remarkable point for so many reasons. He said this in a statement signed by the Ondo State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Donald Ojogo, adding that the news of the demise of the revered legal icon was received with shock, pain and despair. The Ondo State Governor said Akinjide combined the attributes of thoroughness, strong character, discipline and forthrightness as well as sustained penchant for hard work. He said: “The great man will be sorely missed by all. Undoubtedly, if he was seen as a politician, he made his marks on the national plain. But the profoundly alluring slant of his life remains his versatility in the law profession where he served as a strong pillar of knowledge. “It, similarly, becomes more fulfilling and serves as a credible beacon of hope for future generations that the frailty of the mortal being prods legacies and footprints that are pointedly indelible.”