The success he recorded as a footballer could not be undermined. He was once regarded as the best crosser of the ball, won the UEFA Champions League and played at the World Cup. Finidi George is currently assistant manager at Real Mallorca, little wonder the former director of international football at Real Betis believes he has what it takes to manage the Super Eagles, Kunle Adewale writes “Finidi George not only has the right to want to manage the Super Eagles, he also has what it takes to manage the team. The two teams he played in the finals of last year’s Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt-Senegal and Algeria were managed by their former players and I don’t see them as better than Finidi,” former Nigerian international Paul Okoku said in a chat with THISDAY. “As a player, both coaches- Aliou isse of Senegal and Algeria’s Djamel Belmadi were not in the class of Finidi that I know for sure. If both could manage their respective countries why not Finidi,” Okuku further added. Former Nigerian international Finidi George has expressed his desire to coach the Super Eagles in the future and former Nigeria safe hand, Christian Obi his backing the former Ipswich player for the senior national team top job. “For me, Gernot Rohr has not done too badly, but with the kind of money he is earning and the support he is enjoying from the football federation much more is expected of him. I would therefore back a Nigerian for the job after the expiration of the German’s contract,” Obi told THISDAY. “And since Finidi George had made his intention known to manage the Super Eagles, I don’t see any reason he should not be given the job after Rohr must have seen his contract through and he should also enjoy the same support given to Rohr by the federation. He should also be paid reasonably, even it’s not the same as the German,” the 2005 World Youth Championship bronze medalist opined. “With Finidi’s level of exposure and knowledge of the game, managing the Super Eagles should not be a big deal for him,” Obi noted. The 49-year-old had a successful career as a winger having won the UEFA Champions League and UEFA Super Cup with Dutch giants Ajax Amsterdam. George, who was also a key player for the Super Eagles, helped his country win the 1994 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) title. “We are ex-players, we are coaches, we had played this game and we know how to interact with players,” George told a radio station. “We also know how to manage them which is important as well, so if the opportunity arises, I would take it with open hands. George served as an assistant manager at current Spanish La Liga side Real Mallorca. “I have been handling the youth players and it’s always good to do what you know how to do best, actually I have been an assistant coach in Mallorca,” he added. George has also served as the director of international football at La Liga club Real Betis.
George indeed feels that Rohr should have had a clear starting eleven and formation by now.
He believes that the German coach has not elevated Nigeria to the required level because of the inconsistent team selections and playing identity. “We don’t have the best formation and this is the major cause of the team not having its best eleven players today,” Finidi said. “You can’t look at the team now and say the team has an obvious formation today that its playing which is very transparent. “When we were playing you can tell which of the players that suit a particular wing and you can tell your formation and your team from there.” The former Ajax Amsterdam player is concerned about what Rohr has been doing in terms of building perfectly fitting players for specific positions after four years as coach. “For the coach to have failed to ascertain his first eleven for four years now, after he had been handling the team, shows he does not have the right players in place in their positions that’s why with the pool of players we have, he kept changing and not finding the right eleven in place,” George added. He retired having played 62 games for the Super Eagles and scored six goals.