AXA Mansard Health Limited, one of the Health Management Organisations (HMO), has supported efforts at eradicating the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria through donation of personal protective equipment worth millions of naira to the Lagos State Government and University College Hospital (UCH) Ibadan. AXA Mansard said the donation, was made to complement governments’ efforts in the fight against the spread of the disease in Nigeria.
The Chief Executive Officer of the organisation Mr. Tope Adeniyi, in a statement, commended the sacrifice and professionalism of medical personnel who are putting themselves on the line by caring for the infected persons and helping curb the spread of the virus. “To this ends, AXA Mansard Health Limited has donated Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) worth millions to the Lagos State Government, University College Hospital, Ibadan (UCH) and Nigeria Centre for Disease Control at the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja to aid in their fight against the COVID-19 Outbreak. “PPE donated include Splash resistant suits/coveralls, N95 Masks, Goggles etc. In addition to this, the company will be donating N100 million worth of life insurance cover for 100 medical professionals across Lagos, Abuja and Ibadan respectively,” he said. He also commended the efforts made by doctors and other healthcare workers in Nigeria and around the world to combat the outbreak and curtail the spread of the virus adding, “We share the view that the world needs to come together to provide a stronger support for these men and women who have chosen to risk their lives to serve their countries. “Through this donation and commitment, AXA Mansard has meaningfully responded to the rising need for medical supplies at healthcare facilities in Lagos and Oyo states and FCT, three of the major hubs designated to fight the disease, ensuring swift responses are given to COVID-19 or any other health related cases.” Also speaking the CEO, AXA Mansard Insurance Plc, Mr. Kunle Ahmed, said there was need for collaborative efforts at both individual and corporate levels – spearheaded by key leaders in the society to defeat the outbreak. “As a responsible member of the society, AXA is extremely responsive to the situation and we will continue to lend our voice by sensitising the public through the media even as we also throw our weight strongly behind the government in the fight against the epidemic.” Responding to the donation, Professor of Surgery and Provost of the College of Medicine, University of Ibadan and Consultant Urologist at the UCH, Mr. Oluwabunmi Olapade-Olaopa, stated that the intervention was timely and addresses the core of what was needed at this time to keep the fight going and enable care for the sick and research on the disease.