By Victor Ogunje Members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Ekiti State University (EKSU) chapter, have produced sanitizers through the research work of some scientists and donated them to the Ekiti State government to stem the spread of coronavirus. Speaking while donating some consignment to state government in Ado Ekiti Wednesday, the ASUU Chairman, Akure Zone, Prof. Olu Olufayo, revealed that the alcohol-based ointment christened ‘ASUU Sanitizer’ will be distributed free to over 5,000 residents. He said the zone has mandated all the five public universities under it to produce World Health Organisation (WHO)-compliant hand sanitizers that can curtail the spread of the lethal virus. Olufayo said his colleagues across Nigeria are in the laboratories conducting various researches into how to find an antidote to the ravaging Covid-19, adding that the results will be out soon. “Since this pandemic broke out in Nigeria, ASUU has been supporting the government physically and financially through provisions of quality sanitizers and running of jingles on radio and television and distribution of handbills to educate our people about coronavirus. “Again, our members all over Nigeria are carrying out research upon research to find antidote to this killer virus and the results will be made public very soon. “ASUU is concerned about the welfare of the populace and we have to support the government despite our unresolved crisis over payroll with the federal government. “What we are donating today is in compliance with the directive of ASUU National President, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, that every zone must help the government in whatever form to fight coronavirus. “We have donated some packs to the Ekiti State Government and over 4,000 will be distributed free at markets, banks, motor parks, rural communities by members just to ensure that the scourge doesn’t fester among our people,” he said. The ASUU Chairman, EKSU chapter, Dr. Kayode Arogundade chapter, appealed to Ekiti residents to adhere to the stay-at-home directive declared by the government and maintain safety wherever they go. “ASUU is an assembly of eggheads. We are in the laboratories working hard to help our people, because we exist for the generality of Nigerians,” he said.