In Simi’s new video for the single title Duduke, she sings passionately in anticipation of her baby with promises of love, writes Ferdinand Ekechukwu “Duduke”. That’s the title of Simi’s latest single. A blend of afro-pop and highlife, Simisola Ogunleye (Simi) dedicates ‘Duduke’ to her unborn child. One had wished the love song features a guest artiste; preferably her hubby Adekunle Gold, to assist in carrying out the chorus. So they could both sing in anticipation of their first child. The joy is overwhelming as the beautiful visuals for Duduke, which was released last Sunday, shows Simi dancing to her music, singing that she’s been waiting to meet her precious baby and can’t wait to kiss her. Describing her baby as her beloved, Simi said she loves it dearly. “First let me say to you, I cannot wait to see you, You are the treasure I’ve been waiting for Do you know, do you know, How much I really need you, I dey pray for the day when I can finally kiss you,” the expectant mum croons. Released under her record label, Studio Brat, “Duduke” is Simi’s first official single in 2020. The song opens with a pop piano riff and then came the switch to highlife with smooth guitar riffs and African percussions. In the visuals, Simi can be seen playing piano in front of the beach shoreline while rocking her baby bump in a silky, flowing, yellow gown. Simi’s amazing and unique vocals did a lot of justice to this record. She sang so passionately and beautifully with amazing melodies, nice vocal dexterity, and good lyrics. Coming four months after her single, Selense, the release of the video also coincides with the singer’s 32nd birthday. Adekunle Gold in celebration of his wife made a loving post on Instagram to mark the special day. The music couple is one of the favourites of fans. The couple tied the knot in a private ceremony in January 2019. And to celebrate the songstress on her birthday, Adekunle Gold took to his Instagram page to share a tribute to his wife. First, he shared the part of the lyrics of his 2016 hit song ‘Orente’ which he then revealed he had written for her. The singer also promised to one day write a book about how his wife Simi changed his life completely. “You make me happy in every sense. You are the reason I write the best love songs. If you ended up with someone else, my life would totally suck ngl. You are my source of peace, my strength, my favourite love. I’ll write a book someday about how my life changed completely and it’ll have your name written all over it. Happy birthday to you, my one in a lifetime. Love you. Eba mi ki Orente mi”. “I wrote this song for you six years ago – Orente. As a young man that was just trying to figure life out, you had just come into my life and my world started changing magically,” the 33-year-old said in his post. “God must have looked at my unworthy ass struggling through life and decided to bless me with a good luck charm. You are my source of peace, my strength, my favourite love,” Gold also said. Simi responded in the comment section, saying “Big girls do cry. I love you Champ. Forever and 200 days.” The soon-to-be parents had banter on Twitter Thursday morning on whose gene their unborn child will inherent. It started when Adekunle Gold bragged about his excellent grades in subjects like Christian Religious Knowledge and Fine Arts: ‘’Some of us, Na CRK and Fine Art we dey pass well for school. lol. My childhood was such a cruise.’’ Simi saw his tweet and dropped a hilarious response: ‘’ Lord, I come to you today. You know the genes we don’t want. Have your way Father.’’T