One of the leading real estate and property development companies, the Lekki Gardens Estate Limited has announced donation of essential food supplies to over 1000 families in its host communities in parts of Lagos State. The initiative was part of the company’s contribution to mitigate the impact of the COVID – 19 pandemic on homes. At a handover ceremony of the food items in Lagos, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Lekki Gardens Estate, Mr. Richard Nyong stated that the food materials were for over 1000 families in communities where their estates are located. These, he listed to include Awoyaya, Parapo, Lakowe, Olokunla, Alabeko, Owode, and Ikate-Elegushi, all in Lagos State. At an average of four persons per household, he noted the company was actually supporting and touching the lives of over 4000 persons across the seven communities in the intervention, emphasising that whatever it would cost the company, within its means, to touch lives at this period, it would do. According to Richard Nyong, who was represented by the Chief Engagement Officer of Lekki Gardens Estate, Romeo Akinwade, given that the country, and indeed the world, was united in confronting the pandemic, “our organisation is also standing together with the Government to ensure that we leave no-one behind. Hence, we appreciate all who are partnering with us in this initiative to touch as many lives as possible: whether it be our staff, our host communities and our residents.” He reiterated that the act of good neighborliness by the company was consistent with its primary business goal which was to live a fulfilled life – better living; more wealth; and a secure future. However, he added: “We recognise that true wealth lies not in the pocket but in the heart, which explains why we have consistently been part of our communities, being our neighbour’s keeper, since we began business close to a decade ago.” The Lekki Gardens Estate Chief Executive further noted that today, many Nigerians are hungry, and hopeless, adding that there was a strong feeling of abandonment, and frustration, driving some into anti-social and criminal activities. These unusual times, he said, required, “that we give succor to the masses in our communities.” Appealing to other people and organisations to step forward and assist, Nyong stated that the COVID-19 outbreak was predicted to have significant impact on various segments of the world, noting that the populations most at risk are those that depend heavily on the informal economy; have inadequate access to social services; and therefore have limited opportunities to cope. “By coming together as a people to play our parts, especially as we continue to see increasing cases of the corona virus across the land, our positive actions will in no small measure help to stem the spread of this pandemic,” he added. Nyong, also enjoined the benefitting families to take responsibility and remain safe. According to him, our collective responsibility to ourselves and to one another does not end with support from organisations. “From the less than twenty of us gathered here today, we have come to accept that the pandemic has also affected the way we live. We therefore encourage all of us to continuously adhere to the safety precautions and restrictions put in place to curb the spread of the virus.” “As we re-commit to our vision of being continually connected with our host communities, while striving to bridge the housing deficit gap in the country, we also urge you to stay safe. Please take responsibility: stay at home, regularly wash your hands with soap, observe social distancing, use a sanitiser, and a face mask. Assist your neighbours in every way possible. If we all play our parts, we can assist Government and socially responsible companies such as ours to stop the spread of COVID – 19.”