By Chinecherem Ojiako Since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in Lagos in the early weeks of March, OPPO Mobile Nigeria has since taken a very responsive approach in educating Nigerians on how to stay safe and stop the spread of the virus. In order to walk the talk, the ‘OPPO Care’ initiative was launched to providefeeding solutions to many Nigerians who have difficulties providing for themselves, as a result of the recent lockdown placed by the government. In an attempt to reduce the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown in Lagos, the most affected Nigerian city with respect to the pandemic, OPPO Mobile Nigeria partners with Lagos Food Bank to provide food relief items to people living in the most impoverished localities of Lagos State. The OPPO Care package will include the most popular stable food items consumed by Nigeria across various classes of food, to ensure that all beneficiaries have access to a decent diet regardless of their current financial status. OPPO intends to support the vulnerable Nigerians through its corporate social responsibility while also educating them on how to stay alive during the pandemic. The Public Relations Manager of OPPO Nigeria, Mr. Joseph Adeola, emphasised that “helping the vulnerable Nigerians survive COVID-19 is a crucial step, however ensuring that the Nigerians who survive the virus don’t die from hunger and/or starvation is just as important”. He further encouraged other brands in the country to lend a helping hand to the poor and vulnerable communities within the state. He further added that no form of aid/assistance is too small and little drops of water make a mighty ocean. OPPO is an innovative smartphone brand ranked No 3 in the world according to IHS Markit. As at today, OPPO provides cutting edge smartphones to over 200 million people all over the world. OPPO operates in more than 40 countries of the world, with 6 research centers worldwide and an international design center in London. OPPO has more than 40,000 employees dedicated to creating new experiences and greater value for customers around the world. OPPO is popular for its stylish smartphone designs, quality photography experience and the status symbol it provides to its users.