By Laleye Dipo Some public spirited individuals and philanthropists have continued to donate to the appeal fund launched by the Niger State Government to raise fund in the fight to contain the Coronavirus pandemic. Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, had three weeks ago appealed to the general public to show empathy with the state which is presently financially not buoyant enough to fund the Coronavirus pandemic campaign because of its huge cost. One of the latest supports to the state came from a construction giant, Dantata and Sowoe which donated 500 bags of rice and 1,500 cartons of macaroni to the fund on Thursday evening. Mohammed Babangida son of former military president General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida on behalf of the El-Amin Foundation also gave 250 protective gears and 250 sanitisers. In addition, El-Amin Foundation donated a lace to be used as an isolation centre in Minna. Similarly former Executive Secretary of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, Alhaji Jimadah Gana, donated various items ranging from 2,000 sanitisers and 2,000 face Masks valued at N1.5 million. Jimada also gave 20 bags of rice to his Makera Ward in Minna in addition to handing out N2,000 each to each household in the ward. Jimada who made the presentation through his brother, Abdulrahaman Ndeji, said he was motivated to making the donation because of the support given to him by both the state and his constituency which made him to attain the pick of his career. Senator Mohammad Sani Musa had also donated 900 bags each and some condiments to the 9 local government areas in his Niger east senatorial district while a first generation bank had also earlier donated N28.5m to the fund. Receiving the items, Chairman of the COVID 19 TaskForce and Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Ibrahim Matane, declared: “today is happy day for us in the state. We have received support from well-meaning individuals and philanthropists” assuring that the items will be judiciously used. Matane said the facility donated by El- Amin will be used as an isolation center which will also be turned to “standard intensive care unit equipped with ventilators”