Raheem Akingbolu The Nigerian Bottling Company Limited (NBC) and Coca-Cola Nigeria Ltd, have restated their commitment to support the fight against COVID-19 in Nigeria with material donations to the federal and state governments. The NBC and Coca-Cola Nigeria in fulfilment of the commitment have already donated over 13 million centilitres of its beverages, including Eva premium table water and other soft drinks to provide hydration and nourishment for patients and healthcare workers at Isolation and Treatment Centres across different states in the country. Both companies also promised to continue to donate these products through the duration of this crisis. In Lagos, the Isolation and Treatment Centres and frontline institutions that have received the donated materials include the Onikan Centre, the Gbagada Centre, Lagos University Teaching Hospital and the Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) whose street sweepers and medical waste workers are still actively working during the pandemic.
In a letter to the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Managing Director of NBC, Matthieu Seguin, explained that it was standard practice for it to support communities during emergencies. He praised both the Federal and Lagos State Governments for their efforts at curtailing the spread of the virus and providing quality medical care for confirmed cases. “We appreciate the measures deployed so far to curtail the spread of the virus and the medical care currently provided for confirmed cases in the State. We fully support these commendable measures and will continue to work hard to meet the hydration needs of Nigerians, which is critical at this stage of the crisis,” Seguin said. Managing Director, Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited, Yebeltal Getachew added: “As a company that is closely connected with consumers and deeply rooted in communities, we see the unprecedented impact of this pandemic on the country first-hand. We applaud the heroism of our healthcare workers and commend the government for its increasingly effective measures. We are appealing for everyone to come together at this time so we can defeat this pandemic with a single-minded focus.” Receiving the first set of donated items on behalf of the Lagos State Government at the Onikan Treatment Centre, Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Olusegun Dawodu, thanked the Nigerian Bottling Company for the initiative, saying that the gesture shows that the company is indeed a perceptive brand that understands the specific needs of the community where it does business.