James Sowole in Akure Ondo State Governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, yesterday signed the regulations meant for the good order, safety, security and public health of the state. These regulations, which came on the heels of the COVID-19 pandemic, could be cited as the Ondo State Dangerous Infectious Diseases (COVID-19) (Emergency Prevention) Regulations, 2020. The making and signing of the regulations was announced in a statement that was signed by the State’s Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Donald Ojogo. Ojogo said the regulations were made in exercise of the powers conferred on the state governor by the Public Health Law, Cap. 124, Volume 3, Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria, 2006, and in pursuant to other laws and enabling powers. He said all acts done prior to the commencement of these regulations to curtail the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic are hereby ratified, adding that the purpose of the regulations was to prevent and contain the spread of the pandemic as it seems necessary. The local areas affected by the regulations, according to the document, include all structures within boundaries of the state offshore on onshore. The regulations deal with the following, among others: “Power over potentially infectious persons; restriction of movement; powers relating to events, gatherings and premises; power over conduct of trade and commercial activities; closure of public educational and vocational institutions within the local area and power relating to food, drugs, other essential supply chain, hoarding and processing manipulation. “Others include: transportation, storage, and disposal of the remains of persons infected with COVID-19; suspension of court proceedings; power to prohibit the transmission of false information as well as offences,” Ojogo said. The commissioner added that the regulations were part of the state government’s heightened efforts to stem the spread of the deadly COVID-19. He therefore called on members of the public to take maximum advantage of the provisions to help the government actualise the essence of the regulations