* State govt relaxes lockdown order Kayode Fasua in Abeokuta The Ogun State Government yesterday took delivery of some medical equipment donated to the state by the leadership of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), as part of the church’s contributions towards fighting the dreaded Coronavirus pandemic in the state. The medical equipment, which included two units of ventilators; two Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds; two infusion pumps; one vital signs monitor as well as one suctioning machine, were handed over to government by the Assistant General Overseer (AGO) of the church in charge of Administration and Personnel, Pastor Johnson Funso Odesola. Speaking on behalf of the General Overseer of the RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, leader of the team, Pastor Odesola said the medical equipment was part of the church’s contribution towards supporting government’s efforts in the war against COVID-19 in the state. The Assistant G.O. explained that RCCG had been at the forefront of efforts at managing the outbreak of Coronavirus through direct support to government, donations of surgical face masks, hand gloves and hand sanitisers, among others. Odesola further disclosed that the RCCG, has in the last two weeks, distributed no fewer than 20, 000 bags of rice, packed in 1-kilogramme kit, and other food items to vulnerable citizens, to help them cushion the effect of the lockdown, irrespective of their tribes or religions. The cleric, however, prayed that the crisis of Coronavirus would soon be over in the country, so that every Nigerian can be back on their daily activities. Receiving the medical equipment at the Redemption Camp, located along the Lagos -Ibadan expressway at Mowe in the Obafemi – Owode Local Government area of the state, the state’s Deputy Governor, Mrs. Noimot Salako-Oyedele, expressed appreciation of Governor Dapo Abiodun to the leadership of the church.. Meanwhile, the state government yesterday relaxed the lockdown order in the state to allow residents to restock their basic needs within a period of six hours.