World Health Organisation (WHO), declared COVID-19 a pandemic on March 11, 2020. In its message, it balanced the reality that the coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) will inevitably spread to all parts of the world with the observation that governments, businesses, and individuals still have substantial ability to change the course of the disease by being proactive. This could mean putting the right facilities in place, advising on countermeasures, and putting a temporary halt to the activities which may aid the spread. In light of this, some organisations have since swung into action to ensure that the spread is mitigated. An example of such an organisation is Access Bank, who have for the past decades, lived up to their ‘more than banking’ promise. The bank has not only taken it upon themselves to ensure that their customers, staff members and the communities they operate in, are shielded from the virus but has also gone ahead to educate the general masses via their social media channels on the precautionary measure to take to enable us to put the spread under control. They have also joined the Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID), an organisation that was created with the sole purpose of fighting the spread of the coronavirus in Nigeria. In one of the videos which are being promoted nationwide, they dutifully educated the populace on what social distancing is about and why they should adhere to the warnings. They also highlighted prevention tips and measures which will be of immense help in curbing the menace. Recently, the bank released a video showing the CEO/MD, Herbert Wigwe, educating on the appropriate ways to wash hands. He explained thus, “We actually think we’ve been washing our hands quite well but there are WHO standards for cleanliness and how this is done. Firstly, you need to wet your hands with water, apply enough soap to cover all your hand surface, rub your palms together palm to palm, then use your right hand on top of your left hand and with your fingers in between so that you’re basically washing your hands and in between your fingers as well. Back of the fingers must also be kept clean and of course, rotational movements around your hands, rubbing the back of your hands and of course rinsing your hands with water once that is done in a very clean and hygienic manner”. The number one priority for everyone at this time is to limit the spread of Covid-19. Statistics have made it clear that the fastest possible way to break the exponential growth and start to see the logistic slow-down is to avoid any social contact. That way, the possibility of infected people spreading the disease is minimal. It is in adherence to this, that Access Bank urged its customers to make use of its Online platforms, Mobile App, Access Card, and its *901# as an alternative to banking physically.