By Segun Awofadeji Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, has urged Christians in the state to use Good Friday and Easter Monday to pray for God’s intervention towards bringing to an end, the current pandemic of Coronavirus and Lassa Fever. In an Easter message made available to newsmen yesterday, the governor said Bauchi State and Nigeria deserved continued prayers to overcome the security challenges facing different parts of the country. Senator Bala Mohammed called for more supports and cooperation to the government in its effort to control the spread of COVID-19 and Lassa Fever by abiding and respecting all measures set by the government. “You are advised to observe the simple personal hygiene in order to keep away from contracting the diseases such as constant hand washing, application of hand sanitizer, adherence to the rules of social distancing, avoiding hand shaking and touching face, particularly the mouths, the nose and the eyes.” The governor who reiterated the unalterable commitment of the state government to the maintenance of law and order, said already his administration has taken proactive measures to ensure the safety of lives and property of the citizens. He enjoined Christian communities to use the festivities for sober reflection and self-evaluation and put into practice, the virtues of peace, honesty and love for one another. “As you all know, the Easter is observed by Christians to show solidarity and sympathy to Jesus Christ who paid the supreme price in order to save the lives of his disciples and followers to commemorate his resurrection from death. “Bauchi State and indeed the country as a whole need peace now more than ever before, we cannot therefore afford to allow ourselves to be divided along religious or ethnic lines. We must allow peace to reign in order to make progress.” Senator Bala Mohammed therefore tasked people of the state to bury ethnicity, religious or political differences by living in peace and harmony with one another.