By Deji Elumoye The President of the Senate, Dr Ahmad Lawan, has described the coronavirus pandemic ravaging the planet as a passing phase in Nigeria’s history. He has also sought divine intervention in the bid to eliminate the global virus from the surface of the earth. Lawan, in a message personally signed by him on Friday to commemorate Easter, stressed that the coronavirus pandemic is a passing phase for Nigeria and the entire world “while our faith is a potent spiritual weapon for the pursuit of victory”. He urged Nigerians to be resolute in praying for divine intervention to vanquish the pandemic, heal the sick and renew the world and Nigeria. Lawan, in the message, stated inter alia:
“I heartily felicitate with Nigerians, particularly of the Christian faith, as we and the rest of the world celebrate Easter, a very important event in the calendar of the followers of Jesus Christ. “Easter marks the triumph of Jesus Christ over sin, adversity and death. This occasion is relevant today more than ever before as mankind pass through one of the darkest clouds in history. If we draw the right lessons from the death of Jesus on the cross and his resurrection, we become more confident as we fight coronavirus and all other trials that today test our faith. “We should not allow the frightening reports from other parts of the world on the pandemic to discourage us or weaken our hope. Rather, such reports should remind us of the divine mercy under which we live in this clime, and strengthen our determination to rout this virus and others. “I salute the resilience of Nigerians and urge us all to continue to cooperate with the government as it leads us in the fight against coronavirus and its deleterious effects on the economy and life in general. “The National Assembly will continue to provide legislative intervention to support and improve the efforts of government in this trying period and beyond. “I commend our health personnel and other stakeholders at the front line of the battle against the pandemic. I applaud the public-spirited individuals, corporate bodies, institutions and others who have risen in sacrifice and support for our nation in this battle. “As I again wish us a Happy Easter, I urge us to strictly observe the public health protocols of social distancing, regular washing of hands and the rules of hygiene in our homes as we mark the joyous occasion.”