Chuks Okocha in Abuja and Daji Sani in Yola Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and the Peoples democratic Party (PDP) have expressed their condolences to the Governor of Adamawa State, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri over the loss of his mother, Hajiya Fatimah Umaru. Fintiri’s mother passed on at the age of 68 years. This was contained in a statement signed and made available to journalists yesterday by the Director General of Media and Communications to the governor, Mr. Solomon Kumangar. The DG said Hajiya Fatimah Umar Badami died at the Federal Medical Centre in Yola while undergoing treatment from a protracted illness. According to the statement, “The late Hajiya Badmi is survived by her son, the governor of Adamawa State and four grandchildren, siblings and close relations “Her death at this critical moment creates a huge vacuum not only for the immediate family, but for the state. She was a strong pillar in her community, a disciplinarian and a devout Muslim.” According to a statement by the Atiku Media Office, the former vice president who said that he had earlier spoken to Fintiri over the telephone, acknowledged that every death diminishes humanity, but that there can be no loss like that of a mother. Also, the national leadership of the PDP, on behalf of all members of party, has also deeply condoled with Fintiri over the death of his mother. PDP, in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan said that her death at this time, is saddening and a painful loss not only to the governor and his immediate family but also to the people of Adamawa state, the nation and the PDP as a family. According to her PDP, “Hajiya Badami was a devout Muslim; a very kind, humble and generous soul, who devoted her life towards the service of the Almighty Allah and the good of humanity to the very end, despite her protracted health challenges. “It is indeed more painful that Hajiya Badami left the stage at a time her prayers, wise counsel and motherly blessing for Governor Fintiri, the people of Adamawa state and the nation are needed the most”.