For young super talented Nigerian female disc jockey, Iwuagwu Ebere Pat better known as Commissioner DJ Wysei, she’s determined to inspire as many as possible with her craft despite the challenges.
In a brief interview with Thisday, the Imo State born DJ shares her inspiration, journey so far and more. Talking about her journey she shared, ‘ The passion for music developed during my secondary school years and through my University days as a student. I am also a certified Information Technologist. Though I had no Idea I would decide on disk jockeying. I have had lots of experiences in my career when I started as a DJ and I can boldly say publicly that coming out strong and noticed in the industry is not just about being a lady with all the attractive features to offer, but such that could attract the needed attention and know what the listeners want.’ On becoming a DJ she recounts that, ‘ It all began with a simple question that I answered without knowing what the future holds. “DJing?” my sister asked, “Is that what you want to do?” I told her with full confidence: “I’ve decided to take this thing full time; I love it and I am ready for it”.
She could see I was clearly love-drunk with music and the industry. It was then she took me and bought me my very first DJ player, a memory that has created a beautiful after-taste of passion, drive and brilliance. I can never forget that moment in my life.’ She believes professionalism works better when you are well grounded in what you do. As you can represent anywhere. Various industries are filled with inspiring, prolific women and lots of female professionals thriving in their professions and crafts. So for her thriving as a DJ is nothing to be worried about that is why she choose that path. One great big thing that keeps encouraging her was when CNN got a wind of her exclusives and noticed her. Coming on the wings of this was the fact that CNN kept showcasing her along other peer female Deejays. Gaining such visibility, Wazobia Fm Lagos noticed her and she got embraced after featuring in a competition which she was the Top Winner. Then she knew, it’s all worth it and it will keep getting better.