Super Eagles Captain, Ahmed Musa, wednesday debunked the news making the round that he has tested positive for Covid-19. The Al-Nassr forward is presently in the country following the suspension of Saudi Arabia’s Professional league and had travelled back to the country aboard a chartered flight with his family – which he confirmed via social media. Unfortunately, for the bronze winner with Nigeria at the last AFCON in Egypt, his message was misconstrued with a section of the public claiming the ex-Leicester City star was a victim of the deadly virus. But Musa delivered a message to fans on Twitter and Instagram yesterday providing an update on his health and confirming he only went into self isolation to follow the government’s directive on persons who returned to the country from abroad. “It has come to my notice that certain individuals have decided to post false news about me testing positive to Covid-19,” he wrote on Instagram.
“This is a pandemic taking people’s lives in thousands so it is sad that some people want to use this to gain followers or views on their pages by spreading falsehood. “My family and I came in from Saudi Arabia and decided to follow the government’s rule of self isolation for 14 days not because any of us have the virus.
“We are perfectly okay and have not tested positive to the virus. Please don’t fall for the malicious messages circulating about me or my family. Stay safe, maintain social distancing. “ After struggling to make an impact in the English Premier League, Musa who is Nigeria’s highest goal scorer at the World Cup with four goals at the 2014 edition in Brazil and another brace against Iceland at the last edition in Russia moved to the less glamorous Saudi Professional League. In the ongoing season, the 27-year-old forward has yet to score any goal before the season was suspended. Musa was a member of the Nigerian team that won the Africa Cup of Nations in South Africa in 2013 and he captained the team for greater part of the last edition in Egypt because substantive captain John Obi Mikel was injured for most of the campaign last summer.