Oluchi Chibuzor The Holy Child College Old Girls’ Association (HCCOGA) has restated it commitment to producing more educated women in the society through its intervention programmes.
This is coming as the former Governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi had earlier in his keynote speech delivered at the college as part of activities marking the HCCOGA’s 75th anniversary, urged the nation to produce more educated women to speed up its development. The group, through its President, Mrs. Titi Akisanya, said as a college with history of producing notable ladies and eminent women in various sectors, which includes the wife of Lagos State Governor, Mrs. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, it would not relent in pursuing developmental initiatives within the school and beyond. She said the funds raised at the event would go back to the college in areas like scholarship and mentorship programmes and the upgrade of the college hall to a world class standard. “A lot of notable old girls and sets have done notable things to upgrade the standard of the school, repairing and creating new laboratories; recently a mathematics laboratory was created by a set and donated ICT gadgets for students to use in class. “Not too many schools in Nigeria have this equipment especially when it comes to a dedicated digital mathematics laboratory; this is notable because the subject is very important in today’s world of inventions. This means that Holy Child College is in line with technology as robotics and artificial intelligence is shaping economy. “Not too many students like mathematics, but having a digital mathematics laboratory where you use technology to enhance the education of mathematics and the advancement of the subject, it means the old girls are focusing on making the subject more interesting and have seen more of the students doing very well in various secondary school examinations,” she explained. On her part, the Chairperson, 75th Anniversary Planning Committee, Dr. Bimpe Adebajo, announced the postponement of other events lined up for the anniversary due to the COVID-19 outbreak. “In view of the pandemic, we have to be sympathetic and observe the necessary measure put in place by government and as old girls we have to give back to the school through the fund raising for interventions support programmes and also to students who cannot afford their fees as a result of loss of parents, among others.”