First Bank of Nigeria has partnered the Lagos State government to equip and empower primary, secondary and tertiary institutions with e-learning solutions and devices as part of efforts to minimize the effect of disruption in schools’ academic calendar due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The low-end devices preloaded with government accredited curriculum are designed to work offline and efficient for all students, especially the indigent, considering that the data consumption of most e-learning solutions has been a major stumbling block for majority of students and teachers alike. Speaking on the partnership, the Chief Executive Officer of the bank, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan said since education remains the bedrock of any society, it is believed that when children are educated, the nation produces global citizens who will provide ground-breaking solutions for the continent and the world at large.
He said the bank will be providing a sizeable number of devices in this drive to move one million students to e-learning. “This partnership is an avenue to support our children to remain resourceful and fully engaged at this time so that they can compete favorably with their peers internationally. It’s a responsible approach to empower them given that they are our future and the foundation to build our country to greatness. By partnering on this, we are solving a problem for families and for our future.” The Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu said the state had to ensure that it engages the students while they stay at home due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
“We plan to use multiple media, including radio, TV and the internet to reach students. In addition, we have worked on a technology device loaded with the Nigerian curriculum that the students can use while at home. They will be able to continue learning, test themselves and send tests to their teachers who will also be equipped with the device.” The governor and First Bank MD jointly called on well-meaning organisations to partner on the initiative and keep the children engaged and safe during this period.