Hammed Shittu in Ilorin.
An agricultural firm, Versa Nigeria Limited based in Kwara State, has joined other corporate bodies in the state to donate some palliative materials to the state government. The donation was to cushion the effect of lockdown ordered to curb the spread of coronavirus pandemic in the state. Among some palliative materials donated to the government included 60 bags of rice with tomato paste and other condiments for distribution. Speaking at the handing over of the palliative materials to the state Deputy Governor and Chairman of the state COVID-19 committee, Mr. Kayode Alabi in Ilorin, one of the directors of the firm, Mr. Ibrahim Ibitade said the gesture was to support the government in making life more bearable during the trying period occasioned by the pandemic ravaging the world. According to him, “there is no doubt that, the support would also add value to the people of the state at this period of lockdown in the state when the people cannot go out to embark on anything for living.” Ibitade said the co-owner, Mr. Mustapha Olasunkanmi, had been involved in giving back to the community before the outbreak of the pandemic. He added that, “our firm operates hectares of lands where we grow vegetables, pepper among others in a farm at Okeya near Igbaja in Ifelodun local government area of the state, while we also operate real estate and transportation businesses in Lagos”. Ibitade, noted that, the company had spent about N20 million on it to give back to the immediate where it operates and also the kwara state government during the current lockdown. He said:” We assisted the students in the community where we operate by paying for the entire NECO fees of fifty students. We have also refurbished a hospital in the community for effective use of the residents.” He also expressed the intention of the organization to partner with state government in the areas of estate management and transportation. The Deputy governor, Mr Kayode Alabi,while receiving the items commended the kind gesture of the company saying that a friend in need is a friend indeed.