The National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu, has congratulated the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, on his 80th birthday, commending him for his role in engendering peace, stability and development in Ilorin Emirate since his ascension to the throne in 1995. In a special congratulatory message to commemorate the Emir’s birthday released by his Media Office yesterday and signed by Mr. Tunde Rahman, the former Lagos State governor described Sulu-Gambari as a foremost traditional ruler who had made a good name for himself as an outstanding legal luminary and a fearless and courageous judicial officer before ascending the throne as the 11th Emir of Ilorin. Tinubu said: “I congratulate the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, as he turns 80. A foremost traditional ruler and one of the special class of three monarchs holding the title of Shehu in Northern Nigeria, he had made a good name for himself before ascending the throne in 1995 as the 11th Emir of Ilorin Emirate. “Sulu-Gambari is that outstanding legal luminary and fearless and courageous judicial officer who once held sway as the Presiding Justice of the Court of Appeal, Ibadan Division and later Lagos Division. “It is on record that he was first turbaned as the Ciroman Ilorin by his late father and 9th Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Zulkarnaini Muhammadu Gambari, in 1984, while in active service as the Presiding Justice of the Court of Appeal, Ibadan Division. Indeed, he had to relinquish his position as the Presiding Justice of the Court of Appeal, Lagos Division when he was crowned Emir in 1995. “Since his emergence, he has provided that unique leadership and direction for the Ilorin Emirate, which has helped in engendering peace, stability and development. This achievement has not come as a surprise to many who have keenly followed his career trajectory. “His record speaks volume of his impeccable character, diligence and commitment to not only the cause of justice and rule of law but also to the growth and development of the country. Of particular note is the important role he played in the constitutional development of the country. Alhaji Sulu-Gambari was a delegate to the most recent constitutional conference where he contributed considerably to the national discourse. “He has also done remarkably well for Islam. He initiated the renovation of Ilorin Central Mosque (constructed by his late father in 1979) to become a world class edifice. “Alhaji Sulu-Gambari and I have an excellent relationship borne of mutual respect and admiration. At 80, God Almighty has been merciful to the Emir, for which we all join him in thanking Allah. My prayer is that Allah continue to guide and protect him and give him the grace of more years and robust health. May peace and stability continue to reign supreme in his kingdom.”