By Michael Olugbode People of Biu, Bayo, Kwaya-kusar and Shani local government areas of Borno State have received N80 million worth of rice to enable them alleviate their suffering during the lockdown ordered by the state government to stem the spread of COVID-19. The palliative, six truckloads of rice (3,600 x 50 kilograms), were donated to the people of the four local governments by their representative in the House of Representatives, Hon. Muktar Betara. The rice was the first major palliative to be distributed in Borno State, which was totally lockdown on Wednesday night. Speaking during the beginning of the distribution in Biu yesterday, Betara said: “There is no better time to come to the aid of the less privileged than now, that is why governments, corporate bodies and privileged individuals are already working round the clock to bring succour to our teeming population whose livelihood have been adversely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, which led to the global lockdown of cities making live difficult for the people.” The lawmaker, who lamented that the stay at home order has no doubt started taking a toll on the general public, said: “The economies of virtually all the countries of the world have been grossly affected, therefore, there is the need to extend hands of fellowship to those who are worse hit by this measure with some palliatives that will reduce the pains they are going through in this trying times.” Betara said: “In my usual manner of responding to the needs of my constituent, the good people of Biu, Bayo, Kwaya kusar and Shani Federal Constituency, I acted swiftly to the plight of his people with six truckloads of rice (3,600 bags) which was shared without discrimination.” He said there was a sharing committee that adopted a transparent method to ensure that the large population was adequately covered. “Numerous associations in the constituency were captured and have collected their shares as stipulated, and individuals who are not members of these associations were also not left out of the sharing arrangements.” He promised to continue to find ways of bringing succour to the people of his constituency, especially during the lockdown period of COVID-19.