Emma Okonji The Head of Managed Services at Ericsson West and South East Africa, Sunaina Davet, has advised organisations to invest more in Artificial Intelligence and automation processes to achieve the new level of connectivity required for today’s digital transformation. According to Davet, “As organisations across the world are impacted by an unprecedented crisis, it doesn’t need to spell disaster. In fact, leaders who comprehend how to successfully navigate a crisis can emerge stronger and improve strategy implementation. A company’s core values and leadership framework is essential to this. “The time to leverage the full benefits of ICT is now, and investing in technologies that provide the strategic flexibility and dynamic capabilities to drive growth is business critical. Ericsson manages and optimizes telecom networks and IT operations with highly industrialized processes and a truly global delivery model. We create value and business differentiation by taking a holistic approach that covers all aspects of our customers’ businesses.” He said during these challenging times, the Managed Services Operations of Ericsson quickly implemented the necessary business continuity plans and actions to ensure its customers network operations are uninterrupted and that it is able able to continue to serve its customers. “Stakeholders may forget the crisis, but how you handle the situation will be etched into their memory, and shape their perception of you long into the future. This ideology inspires powerful behaviors which ripple through an organisation motivating leaders and beyond to execute against them. Ericsson’s leadership framework highlights the importance of timely, fact-based strategies, cooperation and collaboration while executing strategies in an efficient manner,” Davet said.
Addressing the issues with data services, Davet said shifts in data traffic have changed drastically over the past few weeks as the coronavirus pandemic continues. “For instance, we’ve seen major shifts in data and voice traffic moving from downtown to suburban and residential areas, as a result of lockdowns and less mobility and movement in cities. We’ve also seen a significant rise in mobile voice calls, as well as bi-directional services, such as video calls and tools for smart working. “In addition to this, we see uptake in utilisation of real customer experience services such as internet entertainment services, live streaming and social media interactions. This for sure will bring a new set of challenges that ICT sector needs to address. “High-performance operations are fundamental to the successful transition to the “new normal” whilst service providers optimise and adapt their existing network infrastructure. Now more than ever, we need to do everything possible to support customers to maximise their network capacity and performance. “A close cooperation between operators and partners like Ericsson is fundamental for operators to plan for any change in network utilisation and associated market demands based on available network data analysis,” Davet said, adding that “Streamlined operations reduce the obstacles and enable service providers to face new challenges with ease. Artificial Intelligence and automation provide the performance, flexibility, and scale to pave the way for new levels of connectivity.”