Stories by Ebere Nwoji The Nigerian Insurers Association(NIA) has volunteered to procure testing kits and protective materials for medical personnel in fighting against spread of the COVID-19 in Nigeria. The association, which is the umbrella body of insurance underwriters and reinsurance firms operating in Nigeria said it has also provided life insurance cover for all health personnel and allied professionals who are attending to victims of the virus. NIA Chairman, Mr Tope Smart, who announced the donations at a media briefing organised by the association in Lagos, said this was part of the association’s support to ongoing efforts made by the federal government through the presidential task force , the state governments, Ministry of Health and Nigerian Centre for Disease Control to contain the spread of the deadly virus. “Our intervention will therefore be in two folds. Arrangements are on to procure testing kits and protective materials for the use of medical personnel saddled with this responsibility. “The materials will be delivered to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control in line with our profession as risk managers.
“NIA, has decided to arrange a special life insurance cover for all health personnel and allied professionals who are attending to victims of COVID-19″, the NIA Chairman said. Explaining how the health workers would benefit from the life insurance cover, Smart said, “We have therefore decided to provide the following benefits to those who may be exposed to the following risks in the course of their duties: These benefits apply to all medical personnel all over the nation, N1000,000 cash benefit to all health workers who die in the course of discharging their duties in fighting the COVID-19, and N1000,000 for permanent disability on the part of the health workers.” He said in doing this, NIA took cognisance of the fact that the front line staff were exposed to a lot of risks and as association, it felt the need to provide cover for them against their exposures. On how to deliver the aids, Smart said:
“We shall be liaising with Ministry of Health, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and the state governments to provide us with detailed information about these personnel so we can arrange appropriate cover.” The NIA Chairman also advised Nigerians to adhere to the guidelines issued by the World Health Organisation (WHO), Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and other government agencies and institutions as they relate to efforts to curb the disease. He also advised the public to observe restriction of air travels into the country, limits on religious and other mass gatherings, interstate movement by some state governments, closure of schools and markets and other public places. “Observe regular hand washing regime, use of alcohol based hand sanitisers and enforcement of social distancing among others.
“We urge Nigerians to stay safe and stay insured,” he said. He assured that the insurers, on their part would ensure the activation of business continuity and disaster recovery strategies by providing the necessary support for the wellbeing of employees, clients and other stakeholders Ensure delivery of quality services to clients through prompt payment of genuine claims.
Deployment of alternative channels for effective provision of insurance services to customers. Donation of Personal Protective Equipment worth millions of naira to Lagos State, University College Hospital, Ibadan, NCDC and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja and others
He informed that members of the public can now purchase 3rd Party Motor Insurance from any member company through the Association’s online platform.