By Chuks Okocha Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, has called on all Muslims to use the Holy month of Ramadan to pray for all because what was happening now was a moment of trial for humanity. In a his Ramadan message, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said that what was happening had not been the best of times for all as a people, as a nation and the global community. According to Atiku, “This is a moment of trial because for the first time in our recent history, we have never seen anything like this in terms of limitations on the activities we once performed without hindrance. “Unlike previous years, the 2020 fasting features such as Iftar meal that Muslims share together every day and every evening after breaking their fast would be affected because of the lockdown and social distancing policy brought about by the virus outbreak,” he stated. However, he urged all Muslims to make sacrifices. “But we’ve had to make sacrifices, and much more is required of us in the days ahead if we must defeat the scourge of this plague. Our social life has been disrupted by lockdown of sections of our country and practice of social distancing. “In the last three weeks, we have been unable to gather to fulfill our religious obligations to worship the Almighty Allah. The lesser hajj has been suspended”, he stated, urging all Muslims to accept it as a reality they have to face as they commence this year’s Ramadan. According to Atiku, “I urge the Muslim faithful to pray for the country at this difficult moment when the COVID-19 plague has paralysed every aspect of our social lives. “And as you commence the fasting period – one of the mandatory sacrifices required of us – bear in mind this year’s Ramadan comes at an extraordinarily tough moment for the Muslim Ummah because of the severe restrictions the Corona Virus has imposed on us.” He explained that other activities that may be affected include the Tafsir or the gathering of Muslims to listen to Qur’anic recitation and interpretation by scholars. Against this background, he, urged Muslims to be steadfast and adjust to the new reality imposed by the Coronavirus disease, adding that these challenges are a test of faith and resilience in the face of tough times. Notwithstanding, the former vice president, said that it was pertinent upon Muslims to continue to be the good ambassadors of Islam by promoting peace, unity, tolerance, harmony and peaceful coexistence at all times. Above all, Atiku said that it was imperative that all observe all guidelines of NCDC aimed at stemming the spread of the virus, much so as it is the teaching of the Noble Prophet Mohammed (SWT) during plague seasons such as this. According to Atiku, “I supplicate to Allah to answer our prayers and help us overcome this extraordinary challenge soonest, and put our country on the path of renewal and prosperity”. The former presidential candidate lamented that a novel coronavirus, Covid19, which originated from Wuhan in China has spread to 210 countries and territories as at April 19 2020. Sadly, he said that Nigeria has not been spared this scourge as the first incident case in February, Nigerians have seen how the pandemic spike to 981 with 31 deaths. However, he commended the efforts of health workers in controlling the spread, saying, that the good news however is that thanks to the heroic healthcare workers, 197 of the cases have recovered.