Imo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, has unveiled the Imo Initiative Programme ramping up the fight against contagious diseases in the state. He said yesterday, during the inauguration of COVID-19 Isolation Centres that “As we focus firmly on COVID-19 because of its awesome potency, we must never lose sight of the fact that other threats to our collective safety and peaceful existence abound. Crime, other contagious diseases and disasters inclusive.” Governor Uzodinma expressed happiness that even with the ever rising confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the country, Imo State had been spared from any confirmed case. This, he said was to the glory of God and the relentless efforts of the government and co-operation of the people. He noted “Yet as a people, we must remain vigilant, creative and disciplined in our response to this monstrous virus to ensure that it never gets to our state and if it does, that we must not be caught napping.” On some of the recent measures put in place by government to prevent COVID-19 from entering the state and in the unfortunate event that it does, Governor Uzodinma assured of his readiness to fight it to a standstill. He stated that six well equipped Isolation Centres were now in place in the state at Okigwe General Hospital, Aboh Mbaise General Hospital, Orlu General Hospital, Federal Medical Centre Owerri, General Hospital Umuguma and the Ultra-Modern Well-being Centre, Owerri, Orlu Road, all inaugurated simultaneously. The governor further stated that an operational ready Test and Treatment Centre for Corona virus was also in place in Owerri metropolis with a molecular laboratory to test all viruses, COVID-19, Ebola and others. He equally noted that well trained and equipped medical experts from National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) were on ground to test for the virus, if there was anyone with symptoms and to treat any confirmed case. In addition to the existing State Taskforce on Covid-19, Governor Uzodimma stated that taskforces had been set up at the local government areas and ward levels with 28 state-of-the-art ambulances provided to fortify the state in readiness for any emergency. Governor Uzodimma who reiterated that he would address with all seriousness, the health, security and environmental challenges of the people, called for support towards the Imo Initiative policy. Throwing further light on the initiative, Governor Uzodimma said: “Imo Initiative is a comprehensive package that seeks to clinically confront and conquer the health and safety challenges of Imo people. It is a programme designed to keep our people safe and healthy beyond Covid-19.”