Omon-Julius Onabu in Asaba Gunmen on Wednesday shattered the peace of Issele-Azagba in Aniocha North Local Government Area of Delta State, following the reported killing of two poultry farm workers. The poultry manager and a security guard were brutally murdered by the suspected armed Fulani herdsmen who invaded the poultry farm at about 10p.m. on Wednesday, shooting indiscriminately. The incident is coming after barely a month and two weeks of a seeming halt series on attacks by herdsmen on the once peaceful community. The herdsmen have allegedly occupied a portion of the Issele-Azagba community land with hundreds of their cattle unchallenged. A third worker in the poultry farm said to be on duty with the deceased at the time of the incident, however, escaped death by the whiskers as he allegedly quickly climbed into the ceiling on sighting the armed attackers, a source confided in THISDAY. The lucky man eventually alerted residents of the neighborhood on what transpired in the poultry farm located behind Issele-Azagba Mixed Secondary School. Two persons, including a teacher and a youth volunteer who joined the rescue team, lost their lives when suspected herdsmen invaded the school in October 2019 and kidnapped the school principal along with some teachers and students. According to the source, the attackers had scaled the farm fence to gain entry into the compound before they, then knocked at the elderly security man’s door. On recognising what he believed to be the voice of a certain Fulani herdsman who normally visited to ask for water, he reportedly asked why the herder was coming at such an odd hour. “Their argument eventually woke the poultry manager, who had slept over at the farm. He was shot through the window of his room while the security guard was also shot at a closed range. While the drama lasted, the third person had successfully climbed into the ceiling where he took refuge,” the source said. The Delta State Police Command spokeswoman, Onome Onovwakpoyeya, a DSP, while confirming the incident yesterday, said, “The command is aware of it; for now, the situation is calm as our men are working on clues and as soon as there is any further development, I assure you, we will make it public”. At least eight persons have been killed since October last year following series of attacks, including four this year, by suspected herdsmen. However, there were several weeks of ceasefire, following security beef-up by the police and military operatives that have been patrolling the Issele-Azagba community and environs after the March 5, 2020 attack.