The management of Great Nigeria Insurance(GNI) plc, has said that it will remain committed to supporting efforts by governments at all levels, health workers and the insurance sector towards fighting the Corona virus in the country. The company, is one of the insurance firms that made significant financial contributions towards providing N11 billion free life insurance cover to health workers by the insurance sector umbrella body, the Nigerian Insurers Association(NIA). Though the company’s management said it did not want to disclose the figure it contributed, the company’s Chief Executive Officer, Mrs Cecilia Osipitan, said her company, made a very significant financial commitment to support NIA’s intervention fund in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. She said realising that the COVID-19 pandemic marks an unprecedented time in modern history that will require the best of humanity to overcome and the fact that coronavirus has taken thousands of lives and spread to nearly every country in the world, GNI, along side other insurance firms in the country are not relenting in their efforts to see the world overcome the pandemic. NIA, recently, set up Intervention Fund aimed at raising funds from member companies to support immediate and long-term relief and recovery in vulnerable communities during this challenging time aimed at curbing the spread of coronavirus disease pandemic in the country. Announcing GNI’s contributions, Osipitan, said “as a result of the exponential spread of COVID-19 pandemic around the world and increase in confirmed cases in Nigeria; it is very important that as a responsive corporate entity, the company, remains committed to supporting every effort of the federal government and the insurance industry aimed at combating the COVID-19 scourge in Nigeria” Osipitan, further said the underwriting firm will always comply with the directive of the federal government as regards the lockdown partial lifting pronouncement and how businesses should operate in the mean time. She also said her company will remain in line with the implementation of its business continuity strategy which is hinged on ensuring the safety of health, wellbeing and safeguarding the lives of its valued customers and workforce.
“We remain committed to delivering quality service to our customers via our alternative communication channels. Please explore our USSD Platform by dialing *5076# for all insurance products and services available under the stable of GNI Plc. “We will keep all our stakeholders abreast of new developments as they unfold while we enjoin everyone to continue to observe all recommended precautionary measures by the government and health authorities to remain safe.