Rebecca Ejifoma A popular Nigerian Pastor and Founder of Zionwealth Church, Lekki, Chris Omashola, has decried the spate of hunger in the country, as he calls on affluent Nigerians to join him in giving their widow’s mite to the poor against the menace of COVID-19 lockdown. The pastor, who made this clarion call through his media aide, Seun Adeyeye, Thursday, called for alleviation from Aliko Dangote, Femi Otedola, Mike Adenuga, Rabi Abubakar, AbdulSamad Rabiu, Folorunsho Alakija, Emeka Okonkwo (E-money) among others. With prediction that hundreds of thousands of the most vulnerable children could be exposed to a dangerous mix of extreme poverty, malnutrition and hunger as a result of outbreak of COVID-19 and more fiercely the national lockdown, Omashola chose charitable initiatives to ease the plight of the less privileged. While he divulged that his foundation has provided millions of naira to the poor both on social media and other mobilisation, the philanthropist added, “I am not a billionaire yet and I must not be one before I lift others”. According to him, one has not lived today until one has done something for someone who can never repay. “I must confess that I am much more passionate about ending hunger and poverty in this country. It is on this note that I call most of our billionaires to join me in this dire time”. “We welcome cheerful donations into 0070140997 (Sterling Bank),” he said. Omashola, the CEO of ACO Media PR and Kevwe AUTOS Ltd, had last week called on President Muhammadu Buhari to make better provision for Nigerians living in crisis. To him, the burning passion for alleviation of hardship in the COVID-19 lockdown, is hard to ignore. “I believe in doing the little I can to support the needy and not the greedy. I sincerely want to do more for these people”. The pastor further revealed that Nigerians had flooded his social media accounts with bank account numbers, adding that he has given so much still giving. “But much more is needed”. He also expressed that his foundation, Strokes Africa and Apostle Chris Omashola (ACO) Foundations welcome supports from well-meaning Nigerians including the names earlier mentioned and all others. “We give directly to the needy. I will announce whatever I receive from them with their names and I will make sure it gets to the millions of account numbers that I receive daily. I believe Nigerians will appreciate this method a lot more,” he added. Speaking still, he said that after this life, the only thing one would be remembered for is the impact one made on other people. “We only live once. And if God has blessed us, assisting those that need it the most should be our utmost desire”. “There is no point in preaching the gospel of hope and peace to hungry people. I believe giving and preaching work hand in hand,” he said.