Bamidele Famoofo
The Business School Netherlands (BSN) said it has added another feather to its cap, saying it has moved up to occupy the top 11th position in the global ranking published by the CEO Magazine.
The magazine has consistently ranked BSN among the tier-one leading MBA providers in the world. The 2020 ranking placed BSN far ahead of several business schools, eclipsing notable institutions running MBA Programme and many others. In a report titled “CEO Magazine Global MBA Rankings” which was made available to THISDAY, the editors of CEO Magazine stated the rationale for the ranking: “…in an increasingly congested market, selecting the right business school can be difficult which is far from ideal given the time and investment involved. “Using a ranking system entirely geared and weighted to fact-based criteria, CEO Magazine aims to cut through the noise and provide potential students with a performance benchmark for those schools under review.” According to the report, specific criteria considered in assessing business schools are based upon key performance indicators considered to be of interest and value to potential students: Quality of Faculty (weighted 34.95%), International Diversity (9.71%), Class Size (9.71%), Accreditation (8.74%), Faculty to Student Ratio (7.76%), Price (5.83%), International Exposure (4.85%), Work Experience (4.85%), Professional Development (4.85%), Gender Parity (4.85%) and Delivery Methods (3.8%). “Business School Netherlands now ranks among the best eleven business schools to study MBA programmes globally. It ranked no.11 out of over 150 MBA programmes that were thoroughly examined from all over the world. Thus, BSN outpaced over 138 excellent programmes from different continents of the world in terms of the quality of Faculty, learning environment, class sizes, tuition fees, faculty, delivery methods, international diversity, gender make-up and more.” Business School Netherlands is present in the Netherlands, but has study centers in different locations across the globe, including Lagos, Abuja and Port-Harcourt. Commenting on this new ranking, Prof Lere Baale, said, “achieving 11th position out of a group of 85 Tier-One global universities and business schools is an immense source of pride for us and reaffirms our commitment to the innovative Action Learning and students-first approach. We are honoured to be recognized by the CEO Magazine for the fifth consecutive year.” When asked why Business School Netherlands is rated so highly, Prof Lere Baale explained further: “in the last six years, international observers including CEO Magazine have taken note of our innovative curriculum and world-class faculty who are not mere professors but gladiators in the global business marketplace. Also noteworthy is the impressive career outcomes of our alumni. Many of them are securing investments from global venture capitalists, getting appointments and gaining fast promotions in Fortune 500 organizations and public sector appointments,” he said.