Okon Bassey in Uyo Akwa Ibom State Government thursday denied any confirmed or positive test of the dreaded COVID-19 in the state. The State Commissioner of Health, Dr. Dominic Ukpong thursday alleged what he described as a disturbing breach in the test and reporting procedure.
“All five reported positive test cases have been contacted and they have showed no COVID-19 symptoms.” “Akwa Ibom State Government only heard about the test results in the news.bThe Director General of National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) was not aware of the reported result announcement. “While the tests were being processed in NCDC approved test facilities, all suspected cases were held in isolation. “Several sample batches have been previously sent for testing from Akwa Ibom State and they all returned negative results. “Owing to the irregularities observed in the testing and reporting procedure, Health Care Professionals in Akwa Ibom State have called for an immediate reconfirmation test on the five reported cases. “Health Care Professionals in Akwa Ibom State have also appealed to the NCDC to ensure that all future tests are conducted following due process in order to maintain continued confidence in the process. But in his reaction, the NCDC DG, Ihekweazu has cautioned that this was not the time to make insinuation about the result, adding that out of five results there could be an error in one. The NCDC DG described the laboratory in Irrua, Edo State where the test was conducted to be one of the best in the country, saying the centre could not have made such error. “My appeal for all the states is that this is time for all to come together. There is no reason why anybody will give result without verifying. We are working very hard to make sure these results are correct. Sometime we delay these results. Why the results taking so long is because they are being repeated to be sure. But Irrua is one laboratory in Nigeria that I can almost be 100 per cent sure of the validity of their test. Of course there can always be mistakes, but to have a mistake in five results in a lab like Irrua will be very unlikely. I like to come on everyone in the states in Nigeria to have confidence in the work we are doing,” Ihekweazu said