Oluchi Chibuzor Unilever Nigeria has donated its hygiene portfolio brands of Lifebuoy, omo, Sunlight soap and detergents to the Lagos and Ogun state governments, to complement their efforts towards combating the COVID-19 pandemic. This, the company said was in demonstration of its commitment to the fight against the virus. While making the donations to the government of both states, the company’s Director, Corporate Affairs & Sustainable Business, Ghana and Nigeria, Mrs. Soromidayo George, commended the states for leading effectively in the crisis and demonstrating capabilities to stem the spread of the virus. “Since the confirmation of the first case, the government has proven beyond reasonable doubt their capabilities to curtail the virus from spreading. The strategic engagement of the state in keeping everyone informed through its channels of communications has been effective with the right actions taken to keep everyone safe.” she said. The Brand Manager, Beauty and Hygiene, Unilever Nigeria, Motunrayo Babalola, also said the Lifebuoy brand and other hygiene products of Unilever had been in the forefront of the global battle for combatting diseases like Ebola, Diarrhea and others. She noted that hygiene plays a crucial part in combating diseases. “Unilever brands such as Lifebuoy have social missions that have committed to helping people always live well by promoting hygiene in all spheres of live. This is a charge that specifically comes to bear during these challenging times,” she added. Receiving the products from Unilever in Ogun State, the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, commended the company for its initiative in donating the products in support of the government efforts to fight the virus in the state. According to her, “We are making conscious efforts in our infrastructure set up to handle the COVID-19 cases confirmed in the state, and the support of Unilever will go a long way to curtail the spread,” she said. In Lagos State, the Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Health, Dr. Olusegun Ogboye, appreciated Unilever for its initiative and urged the company to continue its good works of advocating strict adherence of the safety measures put in place by the state government and the World Health Organisation.