Chuks Okocha in Abuja At the end of its seventh teleconference, the governors of the 36 states of the Federation have expressed worries over movement of people despite the interstate lockdown across the country and promised to interface with the Nigeria Police High Command and road transport workers to address this challenge. In a communiqué signed by the Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, the governors stated that they “are concerned with the continued movement of people across states despite the enforcement of interstate lockdowns across states. “The forum will collaborate with the Nigeria Police Force to provide increased security, as well as the National Union of Road Transport Workers and LGA Chairmen in the states to strengthen security surveillance along State boarders”. The communique said that the governors expressed strong appreciation to the private sector coalition for the provision of palliatives to households and testing facilities to help curb the spread of the virus. The communique disclosed that the governors received update from the Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, who heads the Committee that liaises with development partners. According to the communique, “ in response to the fiscal impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on states, the NGF secretariat will provide technical assistance to State governments to establish common macroeconomic assumptions that will help states prepare revised budgets for 2020. The governors also had an interactive session with the President of the Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote who joined in the teleconference. They also received a presentation from the President of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Dr. Francis Faduyile; President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, Mr. Sam Ohuabunwa and President, National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives (NANNM), Comrade Abdulrafiu
Adeniji. The governors assured the associations of their commitment to ensure that health workers who were in the frontlines of the epidemic are not left behind in the areas of welfare and safety. The governors said that they are committed to ensuring that personal protective equipment (PPE) are available in all general hospitals and health facilities. In the light of rising cases of infections among health workers, the governors said that state governments will engage with their health workers to provide other incentives, including insurance cover or allowances as may be required