Super Eagles midfield ‘enforcer’, Wilfred Ndidi, has been named as the Most Valuable Player for Leicester City this season, according to a special report by Sky Sports. According to the report: “Leicester lead the way for counterattacks this season, a hallmark of their game in recent years. “The bedrock of their midfield and the key man in launching so many fast breaks is Wilfred Ndidi. “The Nigerian is a master of the art of the turnover, regularly winning possession and springing attacks. His 4.4 tackles per 90 minutes is the highest in the Premier League this season and significantly higher than the next-best central midfielder, Oriol Romeu on 3.2. “Ndidi’s value was further demonstrated by his recent injury absence – a five-game run that saw the previously high-flying Foxes take only two points from a possible 15.” Most tackles per 90 mins in English Premier League this season (min 50% minutes played). Despite all the accolades Ndidi has remained himself and striving to improve his game. Fans are now comparing Ndidi to N’Golo Kante who left the Foxes for Chelsea. “I’ve always seen myself as Ndidi, I want to be seen as Ndidi,” he said on Instagram recently. “Kante is a great player, if you see the way he plays, you’ll know he’s a machine. “The advice I got right from time while I was playing that position is just be yourself. “Every player has his own quality, it’s not everybody that can be like Ronaldo or Messi, everybody has his own way. “I just want to be myself, play my game and fight for three points,” concludes Ndidi. Earlier on Tuesday, another Super Eagles Player, Victor Osimhen was rated as the best player at French Ligue 1 club Lille, according to influential French magazine, L’Equipe. The 21-year-old Osimhen earned a rating of 5.92 after 26 matches in Ligue 1. His speed and finishing prowess have been commended. The 2015 Under-17 World Cup winner Osimhen has scored 18 goals in all competitions since his arrival at the beginning of the season from Belgian club Sporting Charleroi.