 The Economic Sustainability Committee (ESC) headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said that its three sub-committees have submitted their reports for review. The Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, Mr. Clem Agba, briefed State House correspondents after the ESC’s fourth meeting yesterday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. This is coming as Osinbajo has also held a virtual conference with eight governors from the geopolitical zones on how to harmonise federal and state governments’ response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The ESC was constituted by President Muhammadu Buhari on March 30 to develop a clear economic sustainability plan until 2023. The committee was tasked with identifying fiscal and monetary measures to enhance oil and non-oil revenues in order to fund the plan; develop a stimulus package and come up with measures to create more jobs while keeping existing ones. “ESC had its fourth meeting today with the vice president and at the meeting; three sub-committees submitted reports for review. “These sub-committees are the Costing committee on the Forthcoming Sustainability Plan because we want to put numbers to the various programmes that we are doing. “There is a Job Creation Committee; they also made a report and then the third committee has to with how to gradually reopen the economy. “These three committees are still doing further work based on the meeting we had today. “By the time they finalise, we will be making the presentations and getting approvals,’’ he said. Agba said that the meeting would continue within the week and the coming weeks and expressed optimism that the committee would complete its assignment soon. Meanwhile, Osinbajo has held a virtual conference with eight governors from the geopolitical zones on how to harmonise federal and state governments’ response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Vice President, Laolu Akande, disclosed this via a tweet yesterday in Abuja. Akande said that the video-conference was held on Wednesday. “Late last night, Osinbajo held a video-conference with eight governors from the geopolitical zones on how to coordinate the plans of the states with those of the Federal Government on management of the Covid-19 Pandemic. “Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Finance and Health Minister also participated in the meeting,’’ he said.