Paris Saint-Germain are set to be named champions of Ligue 1, while promotions and relegations are also to be enforced throughout the divisions, after all French football was cancelled for the foreseeable future. The decision was taken on Tuesday, when Prime Minister Edouard Philippe announced that no sporting events would take place in France until September at the earliest, due to the coronavirus outbreak which has swept all over Europe. And further confirmation came from French Football President Noël Le Graët, who told Le Télégramme that the season was definitely over, but he hopes to enforce the normal promotions and relegations upon the teams currently occupying those positions – making PSG champions of France once again. “We informed Comex (an executive committee) of what they already knew, that Ligue 1 and Ligue 2 will not restart, and that neither the National nor the D1 women’s league will restart either. “These four competitions are definitively stopped for the 2019-2020 season. “I am for the application of the regulations. Therefore, there should be two promotions from the National in D2, the D2 should have two relegations and two promotions, and then two Ligue 1 relegations, because I don’t see how we could make playoffs.” And journalist Mohamed Bouhafsi of RMC Sport agreed with the sentiments of the French Football president, claiming the French FA have thought up three possible alternatives for how the season should be decided – but all three share the outcome of PSG being crowned champions. But the good news didn’t stop there for PSG supporters, as the club’s owner Nasser el Khelaifi stated that the French giants will fight to continue their journey in this year’s Champions League competition, despite the Prime Minister’s calls for a stop to all sporting activity until September, via Tariq Panja. He said: “We plan on competing in the Champions League with UEFA agreement – wherever and whenever it is held. “If it is not possible to play in France we will play our matches abroad subject to the best conditions for our players and the safety of all our staff.” The French champions recently defeated Borussia Dortmund 3-2 on aggregate in the Champions League round of 16, after overturning a first leg deficit in impressive style.