By James Emejo Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Mr. Adeniyi Adebayo, Friday said that the federal government was currently meeting with stakeholders in the production circle to harness the benefits of the production of ethanol for making sanitisers to curb the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country.
Speaking during the weekly engagement with the Emergency Operation Centre (EOC) Committee on Sustainable Production/Delivery of Essential Commodities During COVID-19, he said the collaboration will guarantee the availability of raw materials for quick and mass production of sanitisers which has become a daily necessity in the fight against the pandemic.
The minister also noted that his ministry had arranged to hold a teleconference with almost all producers of sanitisers in the country to find a way of ensuring that they don’t find it difficult in getting ethanol which is used to make the byproducts- available and cheap for all Nigerians to access.
He further stressed the need to observe market protocol which stipulates the wearing of masks and having hand sanitiser among other precautionary measures on approved market days before being allowed access into market premises for transactions.
Adebayo said:”I need to stress that, while there is an undeniable need for markets to be open on some days for people to restock on household supplies, it is most important for the set protocol during the process to be complied with to the letter. The use of face masks and hand sanitisers on market days are non-negotiable to limit the spread of the virus until the scourge blows over.”
The minister, for the upteemth time, also seized the opportunity to call on security operatives to allow farmers access their farms for necessary farm activities particularly fertilizing and harvest in order to ensure food sufficiency during COVID-19 and beyond.
He said that the farmers must however, wear their masks as well as observe other preventive measures before they are let through.
He said:”This synergy between our law enforcement agencies, our essential goods manufacturers and the producers and the ministry has allowed us to be able to meet critical demands at this time.
“I wish to also add that, while on duty, our law enforcement agencies must do well to allow farmers access their farms for necessary farm activities like fertilizing and harvest in order to ensure food sufficiency during COVID-19 and beyond. The farmers must, however, wear their face masks as well as observe other preventive measures before they are let through.”