Omolabake Fasogbon The Olu-Epe of Epe Kingdom, Oba Shefiu Olatunji Adewale, Bangbopa, has commended Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for his rapid responses to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic in the state. He gave the commendation while addressing newsmen in his palace in Epe yesterday. The monarch implored Nigerians to obey all set-out guidelines issued by relevant authorities to curtail the spread of the deadly virus. He also praised Sanwo-Olu for the consistent daily updates on the pandemic, stating that his daily update was a right step in the right direction. “I want to implore all Lagosians and Nigerians at large to follow the safety measures. It is for our own good. Ensure you regularly wash your hands with soap under running water and use hand sanitiser immediately. Ensure you also maintain social distancing and keep your environment clean always. “It is our collective responsibility to defeat and put an end to this deadly virus. It is in our hands. There are sacrifices that must be made, including the stress of the lockdown, though, painful but it is the safest containment measure. “Please let us bear with the government at this time, it is for our own good and what they are doing is in the best interest of everyone in the state. I am sure that very soon, by the grace of God, all will soon be over, but let us obey so that we can stop the spread of the virus.” Speaking on the relief package distributed to Lagosians, the Epe Monarch appreciated the government for the initiative. He said it was part of measures to ameliorate the pain on Lagosians. He assured those that have not been reached to be calm as the package would soon reach them. He said that political leaders, elected representatives, both at the state and national levels, non-governmental organisations, and individuals have displayed what Epe is known for, the spirit of kindness and compassion. He expressed his appreciation for the succour given to the people of Epe both in kind and in cash, praying that God would replenish their pockets.