One of Nigeria’s leading manufacturing industry, Doyin Investments, donated the thousands of packs of noodles to Lagos State government as palliative measure, to cushion the effects of the economic crisis caused by the spread of the deadly coronavirus. The food items were made delivered to Lagos State through the Managing Director of Doyin Investments. According to a press release, the Chief Executive Officer, Doyin Investments, Samuel Adedoyin, said the relief materials is made available to assist the people in Lagos State to battle hunger cushioned by the lockdown, which has crippled commercial activities in Lagos State He stated; “ As we witness a rapidly increasing number of cases of the Coronavirus in the country, we have to work hand in hand in stemming the spread of the global pandemic. I also prayed for quick recovery of those tested positive for the coronavirus already, who are receiving treatment in our various isolation centers in Lagos and Nigeria”. He also enjoined all Nigerians to follow the stipulated health guidelines by the Federal Ministry of Health and the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC) in order to keep us all safe and healthy. “We equally commend the efforts of our State Governors in the Southwest, and we are keen to contribute our resources as representative and individual to the collective effort that will ensure the response to the pandemic is swift and effective”, Prince Adedoyin said. The Manager, who represented the CEO, speaking to newsmen stated that the company has been executing similar Corporate Social Responsibility for many years. “The company has been in existence for over fifty years with the aim of satisfying the needs and wants of the Nigerian masses. “The company is into, farming, production of Doyin Cubes in chicken,fish and beef flavour, Prime chicken and beef flavour, Dentoclean toothpaste, Doyin instant noodles in 70gm and 100gms also with Doyin Chinese Balm. Doyin Investment Nig Ltd,a foundation for industrial growth. It also runs hospitality outfit across the country.