The Joseph Imoukhuede OBE Forum has announced the postponement, until further notice, the 2020 edition of the Annual Memorial Lecture in honour of the late top civil servant and statesman, Joseph Enaifoghe Imoukhuede. In a communique issued at the end of the meeting of the Forum, the reason for the postponement was the COVID-19 pandemic currently ravaging the world. The Forum stated that the postponement was highly regrettable but it was the only option available going by the need to safeguard the health of the people and those that would attend this year’s event. “As stated during last year’s inaugural lecture that the memorial lecture in daddy’s honour would be an annual event to be celebrated on April 25, (which is his) birthday, plans had been in full gear to host the second edition this April. Sadly, we regret to announce the postponement of this year’s edition till further notice as a result of the Corona Virus (COVID-19) global pandemic that has grounded economic activities globally. The health and safety of you all, our friends and families is of paramount importance to us, as such we enjoin each and every one of us to please follow the basic protective measures the World Health Organisation (WHO) has put in place to prevent and also reduce its spread,” the statement said. The statement further said the family of the late patriarch sincerely appreciated those who graced the inaugural edition of the lecture series last year which also marked the 30th anniversary of the transition of the late top public servant. The Forum therefore advised the populace to adhere to safety measures against the spread of the dreaded Coronavirus disease. These include regular washing of hands, social distancing, avoidance of touching of face, nose and mouth, self-isolation if there is any suspicion of having contracted the virus, practice of respiratory hygiene, covering your mouth and nose when sneezing and staying informed and following advice given by your healthcare provider. It would be recalled that the late Imoukhuede, who trained at the Cambridge University, was a top civil servant who was the first non-Yoruba man to be appointed a Permanent Secretary in the old Western Region. He was also the pioneer Head of Service and Secretary to the Government of the now defunct Mid-Western Region. He died in 1989 at the age of 68.