By Onuminya Innocent The Sokoto State Government has confirmed nine new positive cases of Covid-19 pandemic in the state, thereby bringing the total number to 19. The state Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal made this known in a statewide broadcast early Wednesday morning. Tambuwal, in the broadcast, said: “Our dear citizens of Sokoto State. It is with heavy heart that I have to break this news to you this morning, of the results of tests carried out by the National Centre for Diseases Control (NCDC) at the laboratory here in Usman Danfodio University Teaching Hospital (UDUTH), whereby 18 tests were carried out. “Unfortunately, out of them nine turned out to be negative. Most of them, if not all, are persons that have had previous contacts with the two index cases that we have had initially. “And, unfortunately, so far, out of the 54 tests carried out from Sokoto State, it means that we have 19 positive cases. Out of these, unfortunately again, we have recorded today three COVID-19 associated deaths. All of the three are patients having history of some other diseases diabetes, asthma and high blood pressure. “We pray that Almighty God shall grant them His mercies and may He heal those that are afflicted by this pandemic here in Sokoto, Nigeria and globally. “I once again appeal to the people of Sokoto State to come to the further realization that COVID-19 is real. We must therefore continue to step up our game in observing laid down measures and rules; and protocols by the World Health Organization (WHO), Federal Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health here in Sokoto State. We must continue to observe social distancing, frequent washing of hands and limiting our contacts.” The governor stated further: “I appeal, once again, to the communities to continue to cooperate and support our security agencies that are keeping vigil at our border’s interstate and Niger Republic with the sole aim of protecting our lives. I urge them also to keep community vigil by also blocking those that are likely to come into, or are on their way to Sokoto State from other states or parts of the country; or any part of Niger Republic.” Tambuwal maintained that the state shall continue to inform the task force team of any suspected case of either COVID-19 or any other symptoms observed. He commended the people of the state for their vigilance, for the way they have been working and giving information to the task force and the government authorities. “Once again, we pray that God Almighty shall have mercy on the souls of those who have lost their lives. And, may He continue to protect us,” he said.