Funmi Ogundare The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has put in place all necessary arrangements to ensure that its services are not only active and available online, but are not disrupted in any way as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Registrar of the board, Professor Is-haq Oloyede, who made this clarification in a statement, reiterated its determination to ensure that it delivers on its mandate of providing quality service to Nigerians. He said by implication, Nigerians can access all its services from the comfort of their homes as they stay at home to be safe. “The SERVICOM Unit of the board could be reached round the clock through our ticketing platform to receive complaints and enquiries. The board would promptly attend to it.”
Oloyede therefore called on the public to take full advantage of these channels for fast and efficient service. He affirmed that the board, as a responsive organisation is duty-bound to support the efforts of government in mitigating the spread of COVID-19 by not encouraging or sanctioning needless assemblage of people at its various offices. The registrar also charged Nigerians, particularly UTME candidates, to strictly comply with the various directives issued by the government to curtail the spread of the deadly virus.
In another development, the board has commended its staff for the successful conduct of the 2020 UTME, stating that a webinar was a potent way of communicating with staff in line with the social distancing protocol and the prevailing lockdown of all MDAs. Oloyede appealed to them to adhere strictly to instructions from the Federal Ministry of Health and the various state governments.
“You are to respect the social distance policy as directed, as well as observe other precautionary measures stipulated by other regulatory agencies.”
He said the board’s online platforms are up and running, adding that it has provided necessary tools with which staff could provide essential services from the comfort of their homes. He charged zonal directors and state coordinators to oversee the security of their offices and liaise constantly with the headquarters or supervising directors for necessary directives during the period of the lockdown. “Prior to the webinar, the board had some proactive measures aimed at protecting its staff as they prepared for the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), by providing nose masks, gloves and hand sanitizers, which we have strategically installed at strategic locations within the premises.” For effective communication, Oloyede said the board had grouped it staff into four webinar meeting groups and each had their webinar meeting last week.
“The first group, Group A, comprises the management of the board, all staff of the offices in the north, while Group B comprises the management and all staff of offices in the southern zone. “Group C is an expanded management meeting comprising the directors, head of departments and state coordinators. The last group, group D comprises the registrar and the security agencies.”