Martins Ifijeh Lagos State Government has unveiled a 70-bed isolation and treatment centre within the premises of Landmark Exhibition Center in Eti-Osa Local Government Area. The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who stated this during the unveiling of the facility Wednesday said the facility would provide additional capacity to support the already existing isolation facilities in the state. He said the birth of the facility signifies a working and fruitful collaboration between the public and the private sector. Sanwo-Olu said: “What we have seen here today is another demonstration of Private Public Partnership (PPP) collaboration between the State government and a Consortium; the Young President Organization which is peopled by crop of professionals from different fields coming together to fund this laudable project. “The facility has been taken over by the state government from Young President Organisation (YPO), but will be operated in collaboration with the organisation. I am satisfied with the level of preparedness of the medical professionals that will mann the facility. “We have taken over this facility but it will be operated in collaboration with the private sector. I am happy with the level of preparedness I have seen. I am happy with the level of professional staff that will be operating this facility. This facility is ready to go and I am sure either today or tomorrow we will start admitting people into this facility”, Sanwo-Olu said. Earlier, the Lagos State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Moyo Onigbanjo, coordinated the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding on the operation and management of the facility between the Lagos State Government represented by the Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, and representative of YPO, Tatiana Mousalli. 80 clinical and non-clinical staff including doctors and nurses and intensive care professionals who have been trained on Infection Prevention and Control as well as COVID19 case management will man the facility. Also present at the event were the Lagos State Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, Commissioner for Information, Mr. Gbenga Omotosho, and Permanent Secretaries in the Ministry of Health, Dr. Olusegun Ogboye, and Health Service Commission, Dr. Muyiwa Eniayewun.