Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo The Osun State Government has said it would today begin the distribution of food and relief materials to residents of the state as part of efforts to cushion the effects of the state-wide lockdown. The state government noted that plans had also been concluded to ensure that the palliative measures reach people across every nook and cranny of the state. The Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prince Wole Oyebamiji, disclosed this yesterday in Osogbo, the state capital, while fielding questions from journalists shortly after he received a truck laden with variety of food items donated by the management of Wema Bank Plc. Oyebamiji said the distribution of the food items to the residents was in furtherance of the state Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola’s commitment to the welfare and well-being of the citizenry. The governor last week constituted a 21-man food and relief committee that was saddled with the responsibility of working out modalities to cushion the effect of restriction placed on human and vehicular movements amid the coronavirus outbreak. Oyebamiji maintained that the administration would leave no stone unturned to ameliorate whatever the hardship people may face due to the lockdown, adding that every household would be taken care of particularly the vulnerable ones in the course of the distribution exercise. He said: “The distribution of the gifts to the people will commence on Wednesday by the grace of God from the state government without necessarily waiting for more gifts expected from individuals as support. “As a government, we have plans, whether we receive gifts or not come, to know that we have social responsibility to our people. We are elected to be in government and we owe a duty to them. “We must cater for their welfare, not only taking care of their health but also ensuring the well-being of the generality of the populace.” He commended the numerous supports received from members of the public particularly members of the private sector and other well-meaning individuals, saying the state government would continue to appreciate its supportive friends, partners and donors in the efforts to contain the spread of the disease in the state.