In commemoration of the 2020 International Workers Day, the editorial body of the pan African digital magazine, Workbooth, is organizing a virtual conference on “Building Career Resilience” with the Country Head, Human Capital for Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc Mrs. Funke Amobi Chartered CCIPD, MCIPM as the speaker. Speaking on the choice of the theme, the magazine’s Editor-In-Chief, Tunde-Success Osideko, reiterated the mission of the magazine as a tool to inspire, educate and advocate on workplace issues in Africa adding that discussing matters like career resilience is not only expected but important especially at a time like this.
In his words, ‘No doubt, we are in perhaps the most challenging times we would ever be and with such drastic changes come the need to reassess and build capacity to fit in and that is what we intend to achieve with this session with Mrs. Amobi. Funke Amobi is an accomplished HR thought leader and subject matter expert on talent and career management, she has been at the forefront of the advocacy on the future of work and the workplace readiness as well as effective career management . She runs a blog “Careermatterswithfunkeamobi” where she enables professionals make effective career decisions through knowledge sharing and capacity building. We are indeed honoured to have her share her unique perspective on the subject. Amobi, leads sessions in Organisation Behaviour and Management at the Executive MBA Faculty of the University of Ibadan, CEMAR Campus. She is a non-Executive Director of Stanbic IBTC asset Management Limited and was also appointed to the Deans Council/Advisory Board of Lancaster University Management School, UK. She has graced several national and international platforms where she often discusses issues surrounding the aforementioned.
This is the fifth chat session Workbooth Magazine will be holding since it launched seven months ago. In that time, the team has worked tirelessly to put out bi-monthly editions with content curated from professionals across Africa.