By Joseph Ushigiale Since the outbreak in China, of the novel Coronavirus or COVID-19, the virus has succeeded within a space of 90 days, in spreading to over 200 countries globally. It has infected 1,632,898, which led to over 97,595 deaths at the time of this report. World leaders and governments have known no peace largely because there seems not to be a quick solution in sight or in the foreseeable future. The outbreak, which caught virtually everyone unawares, threw the entire global community into panic, engineering fear-mongering, setting off unprecedented hysteria and provoking a frenzy of conspiracy theories about the origin of the coronavirus. In the milieu of all these, three schools of thought have emerged. One of them holds the view that COVID-19 originated from Wuhan’s live animal market where an infected pangolin was consumed by humans. Another believes that Covid -19 is biochemical warfare initiated by the Chinese authorities to undermine the United States of America’s dominant position and assume prominence in global affairs. Yet, there is also a school of thought that is convinced beyond any doubt that Covid -19 is a product of radioactive waves generated by the 5G technology that is currently being tested by the Chinese, U.S, Spain, Italy, France, United Kingdom, and Germany. All these arguments could come across as valid arguments depending on who you are interacting with. One thing is however certain, each position is guided by selfish considerations to either push a business interest, pursue a scientific agenda or better still, take political, economic and technological controls. From the point of science, while some scientists will tell you that the 5G network has nonionizing radiation and so cannot break chemical bonds, others disagree. For instance, the World Health Organization’s International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) in 2011 classified Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) as “possibly carcinogenic to humans”. Then in 2012, a $30 million studies conducted by the U.S. National Toxicology Program (NTP) found “clear evidence” that two years of exposure to cell phone 2nd, 3rd and 4th Generation RFR increased cancer in male rats and damaged DNA in rats and mice of both sexes. The Ramazzini Institute in Italy also replicated these findings and had the same result. The scientists hold the view that since the 1G, 2G, 3G and 4G networks with evident low radio frequency emission can cause cancer how much more the 5G with 10 times frequency emission efficiency? In an encounter with Ikwan Onwuka, a Lagos-based physicist and private researcher in Alternative Therapeutics using Sound, Onwuka affirmed that a recent study undertaken by him showed strong possibilities that 5G deployment has a link with the outbreak of COVID-19 if the person is exposed to radioactive waves over a period of about six months. According to him, “prior to the outbreak of COVID-19, I was researching alternative therapeutics based on vibrational energy and destructive resonance. My focus was on Lassa Fever and other endemic viral diseases. So, the Wuhan virus struck and caught everybody’s attention. Soon came allegations and conspiracy theories linking the virus outbreak to the 5G deployment and tweaks happening in Wuhan and other major cities of the world. I decided to study the Wuhan virus using some of the methods I developed while researching the Lassa virus, which was based on the physics of vibrational energy and frequency.” Onwuka said because “a virus is a particle, Biochemists will quickly agree with me that a virus is a particle – virion. But actually, that’s a half-truth. One that has caused a lot of misunderstanding within the scientific community. The virion is, indisputably, a quantum entity. As such, it exhibits the characteristic wave-particle duality elucidated in Quantum Mechanics/Physics. So, SARS-CoV-2 is as much a wave as it is a particle. “Restoring the status of a virion like SARS-CoV-2 as a wave-particle changes everything. For one, its fundamental relationship with the wave nature of radiation from cellular networks becomes obvious. The shared wave nature of both systems offers a good basis for investigating the possible effects of their interaction. “To establish a verifiable relationship between two physical entities, one would need a common measurable quality/quantity and a mutual principle or phenomenon. Both conditions are not far-etched in the case at hand. Waves are expressions of vibrations and vibrations are measured in FREQUENCY (cycles per second). That settles the aspect of common measurement. For mutual principle/phenomenon, RESONANCE and resonant coupling come into play. “Resonance describes the phenomena of amplification that occurs when the frequency of a periodically applied force is in harmonic proportion to a natural frequency of the system on which it acts. It makes for the transfer of energy-information between the applied force and the dynamic system being impacted. Regarding this discussion, radiation from 3G/4G/5G networks forms the periodically applied force while the SARS-CoV-2 represents the system at the receiving end.” Relying on two established authorities in the field by combining of Albert Einstein’s particle energy equation ( E = MC^2 ) and Max Planck’s wave energy equation ( E = hv ) to buttress his argument backed by mathematical representations, Onwuka said” If one can convincingly show that the natural vibrational frequency of the SARS-CoV-2 system falls within the frequency bandwidth of 3G/4G/5G networks, then it should be granted that the energy-information activities of these networks bear influence on SARS-CoV-2 and consequently on COVID-19. The frequency bands of 3G/4G.5G have already been listed above. So, the next logical task will be to find the resonant frequency or frequencies involved in the SARS-CoV-2 system.” He pointed out that “When SARS-CoV-2 invades a cell via the ACE2 receptor, its RNA hijacks the cell’s resources and coopts two protein enzymes for the purpose of replication and transcription. These enzymes have been identified as the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp)- nsp12 and the Main protease, 3-CLpro. Therefore, the SARS-CoV-2 system in a typical COVID-19 case will consist of three resonant frequencies: One for the SARS-CoV-2 RNA, and the other two for nsp12 and 3CLpro.” Accordingly to him, “In order to find the vibrational frequency of SARS-CoV-2 RNA, I studied available bioinformatics on the virus. The SARS-CoV-2 RNA with Genome ID: MN908947 has 29,903 bases, while the genome from the index case in Nigeria has 29,844 bases. Genome size has a mathematical relationship with approximate mass, from which frequency can be calculated using a combination of Albert Einstein’s particle energy equation ( E = MC^2 ) and Max Planck’s wave energy equation ( E = hv ).hv = MC^2 v = MC^2/h. Where v is frequency, M is mass, C is the speed of light and h is Planck’s constant. C = 299,792,458m/s, approximately = 3e8m/s. C^2 = 9e16m/s. And Planck’s constant, h = 6.63e-34J/s. “Solving for the approximate molecular mass of the single-stranded SARS-CoV-2 RNA molecule with 29903 bases: M = 29903 * 330Da = 9867990Da (1Da = 1.661e-24g). Therefore, Mass = 9867990 * 1.661e-24 = 1.639073e−17. Applying the frequency formula, v = MC^2/h. Frequency = (1.639073e−17 * 9e16) / 6.63e-34 = 2.224986e33Hz. Which on its -72nd octave harmonic = 3.67GHz and in the -73rd octave = 1.83GHz.” He pointed out that the “3.67GHz and 1.83GHz frequencies fall within the cellular frequency bandwidths of 3.7GHz and 1.8GHz, respectively. These are frequency bands used in both 4G and 5G networks. Please refer to the list of frequency bands above to confirm. That means, it is possible for the SARS-CoV-2 system to absorb energy from 4G and 5G radiations whether or not such radiations are ionizing.” To solve for the other two frequencies of the SARS-CoV-2 system, Onwuka went on to show that “SARS-CoV-2 POLYMERASE. RdRp, (non-structural protein) nsp12. Molar mass > 110kDa. Mass =(110000 * 1.661e-24)g = 1.8271e−19g. Frequency =(1.8271e−19 * 9e16) / 6.63e-34 = 2.480226e31Hz. Which on its -67th octave harmonic = 2.63GHz. Therefore, 2.63GHz falls within the bandwidth of 2.6GHz, which is a cellular frequency band available for 3G, 4G, and 5G networks. ‘Again confirm from the list above for the SARS-CoV-2 PROTEASE. C22H43N5O9, Molar mass > 641.712Da. Mass = (641.71 * 1.661e-24)g = 1.06588e−21g. Frequency = (1.06588e−21 * 9e16) / 6.63e-34 = 1.446896e29Hz. Which on its -58th octave harmonic = 1.96GHz. 1.96GHz falls within the bandwidth of 2.0GHz, is a cellular frequency band available for 4G and 5G networks. Please confirm, one last time, from the list above. ‘For those who are aversed to mathematical representations, here’s a recap of the three resonant frequencies of the SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 system and the cellular networks with matching frequency bands: SARS-CoV-2 RNA: 4G, 5G; Polymerase (nsp12): 3G, 4G, 5G; Protease (3CLpro): 4G, 5G. From the foregoing, it is evidently clear that radiation from cellular network systems – 3G, 4G, and 5G interact energetically with the SARS-CoV-2/COVID system at quantum levels. It is therefore very possible that SARS-CoV-2 absorbs energy-information from these radiations through the phenomenon of resonant amplification. Another glaring possibility is that the sudden surge in 5G deployment could have notched the energy absorption of the virion system to the threshold required for massive replication and infection, culminating in the global COVID-19 pandemic.’ As the controversy raged during the week, Corporate and Crisis Communication Expert, Emeka Oparah weighed in. In a recent article titled: 5G and COVID-19: The technology, conspiracy and ignorance, he wrote: “The Daily Star quotes an “activist and philosophy lecturer at the Isle of Wight College” saying that electromagnetic radiation from 5G suppresses the immune system, helping the virus to thrive. According to him, the level of radiation from 5G is far below levels of electromagnetic radiation thought to cause damage to cells in the human body. The second theory appears to be that “viruses “talk to each other” when making decisions about infecting a host”. This is not true. The Daily Star article links to a 2011 research paper which suggested that bacteria may produce electromagnetic signals to communicate with other bacteria. This hypothesis is disputed and refers to bacteria and not viruses like the new coronavirus. “The new coronavirus is also spreading in places without 5G networks. There are many parts of the UK that do not have 5G coverage yet but are still affected by the virus (for example, Milton Keynes and Portsmouth). There are no 5G networks at all in Iran, yet this country has been severely affected by Covid-19 (at the time of writing, Iran had the sixth-highest number of reported Covid -19 cases and the fourth-highest number of deaths of 177 countries and regions in the world).” Citing several authoritative sources, Oparah stated that “The UK government yesterday came out with perhaps the strongest rebuttal of these figments of the fertile imagination of some self-styled scientists: “There is absolutely no credible evidence of a link between 5G and coronavirus,” the UK’s Department of Digital, Culture, Media, and Sport (DCMS) tweeted, noting that “inaccurate information” was being spread online about 5G. The DCMS pointed to research debunking the supposed link between 5G and the coronavirus, as well as links discussing the actual cause of the infection — direct exposure to COVID-19 particles spread through physical contact, not radio waves.There are acceptable safe limits, which are determined, specified, regulated and supervised by International Technology Regulatory bodies. That is a universal truth in international best practice. practice.” He quoted Kate Lewis of Full Facts who opined that: “Radio waves are a small part of a wider electromagnetic spectrum of waves, which all emit energy called electromagnetic radiation. Radio waves are found at the low-frequency end of the spectrum and—alongside microwaves, visible light and heat—only produce non-ionizing radiation. This means that these waves cannot damage the DNA inside cells, which is how waves with higher frequencies (such as x-rays, gamma rays, and ultraviolet light) are thought to cause cancer. To improve the speed and capacity of our wireless technology, 5G uses a higher frequency of radio waves compared to its older generations. The frequency of this new wireless technology remains very low: the maximum levels of electromagnetic radiation measured by Ofcom were about 66 times smaller than the safety limits set by international guidelines. Public Health England states that “the overall exposure is expected to remain low relative to guidelines and, as such, there should be no consequences for public health.” Aside from these arguments, a fresh angle traced to the development of biochemical weapons by China, which is set to effectively put the rumours linking 5G to the cause of coronavirus to rest has been provided by the United States’ Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). According to a report published by The Washington Post in January this year, The FBI has arrested the chair of Harvard University’s chemistry department, accusing him of lying about his work for a Chinese university, and charged two others who worked in the Boston area with aiding China’s efforts to steal scientific research, officials announced Tuesday. “All of the individuals charged today were either directly or indirectly working for the Chinese government at our country’s expense,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Joseph Bonavolonta. U.S. officials said the activity they uncovered is part of an ambitious, years-long effort by the Chinese government to steal intellectual property and technology to better compete in the global marketplace. U.S. officials estimate that China’s alleged thefts of trade secrets cost U.S. businesses tens of billions of dollars a year. John Demers, head of the Justice Department’s national security division, said American universities “should take this threat seriously and continue to take actions to confront it, including ensuring transparency in their programs’ funding sources and their professors’ commitments, and having secure physical and Internet security for their sensitive research.” What is evidently at play is the interplay of international geopolitics which pitches China against the U.S over who controls the upcoming 5G network technology through the use of disinformation, rumours, fear-mongering to cast 5G network technology in a bad light. The new technology is an embodiment of money, job creation, power and sphere of influence. The rivalry between the two countries over who takes control of world affairs began after the U.S won the previous generations of 1G, 2G, 3G, and 4G. It has been reported that the US gross domestic product (GDP) grew by over $100 billion. After China lost, it reportedly consoled itself and decided to work hard to displace America from its pre-eminent position. To execute that task, Huwaei, a leading Chinese tech company led the execution of this plan. Within a short span of time, Huwaei emerged as the global manufacturer of telecoms infrastructure supplying and installing in the US, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, France, etc. Last June, China announced plans to begin testing its 5G network technology in readiness for launch. The US, which since President Donald Trump became president has engaged China in all sorts of trade wars dropped the 5G network technology ball only to wake up too late in the day to realise that China has taken the lead.
Even as the US is struggling to discredit China and the 5G network technology, China is reported to be working far ahead on its 6G network technology. So what has the US lost? Now that China has won the 5G race, the US has lost about 3 million jobs that the launch of the technology would create, lost $500 billion revenue that would be generated as well as its sphere of influence across the world. In fact, this could be the beginning of the end of America’s power as the global policeman. How would China benefit? To get a better understanding, let us ask what benefits 5G network would offer. According to CNET ” The technology promises to change our lives by connecting everything around us to a network that is 100 times faster than our cellular connection and 10 times faster than our speediest home broadband service. “But it’s not just about speed for speed’s sake. While the move from 3G to 4G LTE was about faster connections, the evolution to 5G is so much more. The combination of speed, responsiveness and reach could unlock the full capabilities of other hot trends in technology, offering a boost to self-driving cars, drones, virtual reality and the internet of things.” The evolving 5G technology presents a future of possibilities supported by artificial intelligence and machine learning. The Chinese who are already far advanced in these fields would break grounds in carrying out remote surgeries, give customers an entirely new internet experience, enable self-driving or driverless cars, give precision to drones, enhance virtual reality in film making, guarantee service level agreements and also provide dependable home broadband. According to the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 5G technology provides much higher data rates (1-20 Gbit/s), enabling consumers to download content more quickly, gives lower latency (1 ms), allowing users to experience less delay/lag when requesting data from the network — a latency of milliseconds, imperceptible to humans and guarantees increased capacity as the network expands. It also noted that 5G technology would work alongside existing 3G and 4G technology, 5G networks and help power a huge rise of Internet of Things (IoT) innovations, providing the infrastructure needed to carry huge amounts of data and allowing for an even smarter, more connected world. Speedier connections that stay online no matter where you are and average download speeds of around 1 GBps are expected to be the norm. Nigeria and indeed Africa, rather than engage in the spread of unfounded fear and rumour-mongering should position quickly to benefit from this emerging knowledge-driven economy that would transform virtually all spheres of our daily lives. The point needs also be made that all precautionary measures and global standards guiding the deployment of 5G network technology must be adhered to and implemented by the supervising ministry and related agencies to ensure high safety standards. Above all, Nigerians need to know every step of the way how this technology would be deployed and what needs to be done. Government and its officials must be transparent and carry the people along to forestall suspicion and rumour-mongering and fear.