The recent partnership between Access Bank and Star Lager Beer to create a platform where musical talents could display and shine, has continued to excite the music industry. The partnership led to the just-concluded Access The Stars TV Show, which strongly portrayed Access Bank’s support for the celebration of creativity and positioning of Nigeria’s talents on a global scale. The partnership became more important at this time when Nigeria is swimming in musical talents with different sounds spring forth from different directions. While speaking on the grand finale of the show, Access Bank’s MD/CEO, Herbert Wigwe stated: “We are proud to have created a platform that shapes music talents and serves as a springboard to launch these talents forward and position them for career advancement. “Like I’ve said countless times, We will continue to support talents for those who believe in endless possibilities, we are the financial partners that support the dreams of these talents every step of the way, through our dynamic and innovative solutions, because they deserve more.” When Access Bank and Star Larger Beer announced their intentions to sponsor one of Nigeria’s, biggest TV shows, Access The Stars, it was met with enthusiasm and excitement. For a bank whose operational purpose is hinged on sustainability and creating an enabling environment for its customers as well as the society to thrive, it came as no surprise at all. Their reason for partnering with Star to create a platform where musical talents can shine more is not far fetched. It is embedded in its corporate philosophy which is: Setting standards for sustainable business practices that unleash the talent of our employees; Deliver superior value to our customers and provide innovative solutions for the markets and communities it serves. For the past decades, Access Bank has strictly lived up to its more than banking promise and has diversified its sustainability efforts towards the areas of education, sports, art, health and environment and recently, entertainment. Access Bank has a track record of going further for its customers by finding solutions that will help make society better. They have done this by creating a platform such as Access The Stars that will provide emerging artists with a powerful stage to promote their talents and connect with renown artists in the industry. It is indeed an opportunity of a life time which paves way for stardom.