Peter Uzoho The Rural Electrification Agency (REA) has handed over four completed solar hybrid mini-grid plants to Lagos and Ogun State as well as the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) as part of its support in stemming the tide against the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The project handed over to the beneficiaries on April 15 and 16, 2020, according to the agency, included a 53.1KWp solar hybrid mini grid installed at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital COVID-19 Isolation Center; and 25KWp solar hybrid mini grid at Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC) Public Health Laboratory in Lagos. Others were a 20KWp solar hybrid mini-grid at 128 Bed Ikenne Isolation Center as well as 10KWp solar Mini hybrid mini grid at 100 Bed Iberekodo isolation Center in Ogun state. While handing over the completed projects to the beneficiaries, the Managing Director of REA, Mr. Ahmad Salihijo Ahmad, explained that the initiative was being implemented to complement the efforts of the federal and state governments as well as the private sector in containing the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. According to him, this is following the outlined intervention and palliative measures of President Muhammadu Buhari, in his national broadcast of 29th of March, 2020 and the Honorable Minister of Power’s directives on the role of REA in complementing the federal government’s efforts on COVID-19. He outlined the agency’s measures taken towards containing COVID-19 in the country, including providing emergency electrification of COVID-19 health centers across the country, in collaboration with development partners on accelerating disbursement to qualifying developers, as well as engaging the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) through the Federal Ministry of Power towards inclusion of energy companies under the COVID-19 intervention programme of the bank. Ahmad reiterated REA’s support in containing COVID-19 and commitment towards electrification of unserved and underserved areas across the country, saying, “The REA being the implementing agency of the federal government for the electrification of unserved and underserved areas across the country hereby provide and handover this 53.1KWp solar hybrid mini grid at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital Covid-19 Isolation Center. “This project is one of initial four solar hybrid mini grids implemented by the REA at COVID-19 health facilities. The other three are 25KWp solar mini grid at the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC) Public Health Laboratory in Lagos; 20KWp solar hybrid mini grid at 128 Bed Ikenne Isolation Center; and 10KWp solar Mini hybrid mini grid at 100 Bed Iberekodo Isolation Center in Ogun state. “Implementing these projects will provide clean, safe and reliable electricity to enable our health workers thrive towards the fight against this Covid-19 disease”.