Visa Foundation announced a commitment of two programs totaling $210 million to support micro, small and medium size enterprises (MSMEs) aligning with the Foundation’s long-term focus on women’s economic advancement and inclusive economic development. The fund will also address an urgent need from local communities following the spread of COVID-19. According to Visa, the first program of $10 million would be designated for immediate emergency relief to support charitable organizations on the frontlines responding to the COVID-19 pandemic, such as public health and food relief, in each of the five geographic regions in which Visa operates: North America; Latin America and the Caribbean; Europe; Asia Pacific; and Central Europe, Middle East and Africa. The CEO and Chairman of Visa, Al Kelly, said: “As COVID-19 continues to unfold, communities are feeling the effects and need our immediate support. As a global company that operates a very local business, we recognize this need. We’re also committed to the long-term recovery and will continue to explore ways we can accelerate economic activity in line with our mission to help individuals, businesses and economies thrive.” He said: “The second program is a five-year, strategic $200 million commitment to support small and micro businesses around the world, with a focus on fostering women’s economic advancement. This action expands the Visa Foundation’s long-standing support for small and micro businesses globally. The funds from the Visa Foundation will provide capital to non-government organizations (NGOs) and investment partners supporting small and micro businesses. “Small and micro businesses are the backbone of the global economy, accounting for more than 90 per cent of worldwide businesses and contributing 50 to 60 percent of global employment. There is a $300 billion annual credit deficit in funding for women-owned small and micro businesses, which is expected to grow given the recent economic turmoil unfolding due to COVID-19.” Through the $200 million small and micro business program, the Visa Foundation will provide $60 million in grants to NGOs dedicated to supporting small and micro business owners, many of whom are women, in every region where Visa operates. The Visa Foundation will also allocate $140 million with investment partners that generate positive social and financial returns for small and micro businesses. President of the Visa Foundation, Graham Macmillan, said: “Two hundred million dollars in new financial resources demonstrates our continuing commitment to support small and micro businesses, with a focus on women’s economic advancement globally. When women thrive, communities thrive. We know this matters now more than ever as the global economy seeks to recover and rebuild.”