Canada’s creative culture is booming and Chris Jey is one of the leaders of this movement across Europe and North America. Born Christopher S. Jeyarajah (born 11 November 1970), with 3 siblings. Event promoters like Chris Jey are using their globalized world as a way to explore differently with various cultures and we learned he recently visited a West Africa state, Nigeria, in his bid to spread his tentacles across the globe. His manner of approach to his concert across Canada and other countries has been received so well. He has collaborated with Fetty Wap, Stefflon Don, DJ Drama, Snoop Dogg, French Montana, Boyz II Men, Ace Hood, Juicy J, Tyga, Lil Kim, Chris Brown, Drake, among others. In a chat with Thisday, he spoke about his experiences, inspirations and what is next for him after the COVID-19 pandemic. “A lot of crazy things happen; they might order for a white or blue towel by 1am or ask for a different type of meal which they know is impossible to get around. Like; they can be really demanding at night time”, he said while shedding light on his experience working with many A-list artistes. Being a veteran on the job, he had the following to advice for budding promoters. “Don’t drink at your own event; you are the eyes and forerunner of your show. You just have to learn to manage your space the right way so you don’t fall out of your game. It’s hard starting, but when you have your game together, be smart and handle it right”, he said. Given the opportunity to go back in time, he harped on the advice he would have given himself. “My advice is to be smart and understand that entertainment is a relationship business. You must try to be prudent as much as you can and always think about the future. The more relationship you can build the more influential you will be.” Speaking further, he noted that his major dream is to stage a massive show in Nigeria. “My dream is to do a big show in Nigeria. A lot of American artists always talk about Nigeria as an entertainment Hub of Africa. After Nigeria, I will like to do shows in Tanzania and Kenya. I will be doing a world tour soon and also i will be opening new branches all over the world after the corona virus.”