Rebecca Ejifoma Following the extended lockdown of the Federal Government to effectively combat COVID-19, the Senior Pastor and General Overseer of the Zionwealth of Life Assembly Lekki, Chris Omatsola, has feared the possible increase in hunger across the country, especially Lagos State and calls on the government to help against inflation of cost of food items. He said this in a media release issued Tuesday, to register his worries alongside displeasure especially over the sparse measures that have been set in place towards assuaging the sufferings COVID-19 lockdown has caused. Some of his worries are: palliative for the poor masses, SMS alerts should be credit to accounts, electricity supply, and hiking in cost of food items among others. “Since the right of the poor Nigerian to fend for themselves has been taken away due to the lockdown, it is therefore the responsibility of the government to help out. It would be advisable to alleviate the people’s unbearable suffering and frustration,” he pleaded. Urging the president to be swift, he reminded him that Nigerians are currently crying, frustrated and hungry. “In an unjust and unfair society like ours, where the rights of the poor masses are constantly abused, silence is a sin. We are all equal in the eyes of the Almighty Creator”. Omatsola, who is also a prolific writer and CEO of Kevwe Motors, stated that the government needed to pay more attention to the plights of the average Nigerian especially now. “It is not longer hidden that Nigerians are begging for what, ideally, should be their basic right”. He, however, acknowledged the well-meaning individuals and corporate bodies who donated to help ease the curtailing of the pandemic and the lockdown. “But no tangible measures have been set in place by the government to really reach the masses”. “Even though public giving is not my style, God bless the likes of Aliko Dangote, Femi Otedola, Rabiu Abdulsamad, Mike Adenuga, Tony Elumelu and other businessmen and philanthropists, for their kindness to fellow Nigerians. He went on to applaud Nigerian pastors like David Oyedepo; Jeremiah Fufeyin; Johnson Suleman; Dr Paul Enenche; David Ibiyeomie; and Biodun Fatoyinbo among others for giving their widow’s mite. Meanwhile, he frowned at the countless messages from the NCDC, saying it should be credit alert to accounts. “NCDC bombards us with cautionary SMS’s instead of credit alerts to meet actual needs. This doesn’t speak well of the government “. “Even though many Nigerians have cried out on social media about several things. There is inflation in prices of commodities across the country now. Omatsola, therefore, advised: “I call on the Nigeria Government to assist Nigerians financially nationwide no matter how small just to display a little expression of love to their citizens.”