As millions of Nigerians stay indoors in line with the lockdown being observed in many parts of the country to help check the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, they can look forward to an interesting episode of African Voices Changemakers on CNN International, Globacom, sponsor of the programme has said. The programme will feature stories of three young Africans who are creating a niche on the continent through unique reality television shows. They are Nigeria’s Seyi ‘Shedams’ Olusore and Olawunmi ‘Olah’ Oyedeji and Kenya’s Patricia Gichinga. Olusore is a popular fitness trainer and the brain behind Nigeria’s first Weightloss Reality TV Show- The faSttest Shedder. He is also one of the show’s official trainers. He is expected to give viewers a behind-the-scenes look at the 90-day intensive weight-loss show. Although he studied Computer Engineering at the Covenant University, Olusore delved into fitness training and became a Certified Health & Wellness Expert of Arizona State University and a Certified CPR/AED/First-Aid from the National CPR Foundation, USA. Also scheduled to talk about his show on African Voices Changemakers this weekend is Olawunmi Oyedeji, business development manager, director, producer ,TV content creator and film maker. He is the creator of Nigeria’s ‘Try My Job’, a reality television show aimed at tackling social justice issues and unemployment using entertainment as a major tool. The programme is endorsed by the Lagos State Ministry of Wealth Creation and supported by Ford Foundation. He is also the creator of Project Renew which is focused on renewing the minds of the average Nigerian starting from the grassroots through a three-pronged program that includes seminars, skills acquisition and talent hunt. The third guest on the programme is Patricia Gichinga, from Kenya. She is the Head Producer, Mediae, Kenya. She will talk about her farming TV reality show, Shamba Shape Up, East Africa’s leading agricultural TV program. It is a reality make-over show filmed on smallholder farms addressing the problems of the farmers in order to increase production and encourage farming as a business in Kenya and Tanzania. It reaches over 8 million households each week in English and Swahili. Catch African Voices Changemakers on CNN at 9.30 a.m. and on Saturday at 12.30 p.m., 5.30 p.m. and 8.30 p.m. Other repeat broadcasts come up on Sunday at 5.00 a.m., 9.30 a.m. and 8.30 p.m., with more repeats on Monday and Tuesday at 5.30 a.m. and 6.30 p.m. respectively.