* Constitutes panel to develop template for court sitting By Alex Enumah The National Judicial Council (NJC) has recommended for compulsory retirement, Justices Francis Abosi, Acting President, Customary Court of Appeal, Imo State and Aliyu Liman of Bauchi State High Court. The NJC took the decision at its 91st meeting presided over by the Chairman of the NJC and Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Ibrahim Muhammad. “Council at the meeting also recommended the compulsory retirement of Hon. Justice Francis Chukwuma Abosi, Acting President, Customary Court of Appeal, Imo State and Hon. Justice Aliyu Musa Liman of Bauchi State High Court of Justice with immediate effect. “Hon. Justice Francis Chukwuma Abosi was recommended for compulsory retirement following the falsification of his date of birth from 1950 to 1958,” it said. Findings showed that he was supposed to have retired in November 2015 when he clocked the mandatory retirement age of 65 years,” a statement by the Director, Information, NJC, Mr Soji Oye, had said. The statement said that the Council decided to recommend his compulsory retirement to Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State and to also deduct the salaries he had earned from November 2015 to date from his retirement benefit. On his part, Justice Liman was recommended to the Bauchi State Governor Bala Mohammed for compulsory retirement for failing to deliver judgment in suit No BA/100/2010, between Abubakar Isa and Sheik Tahir Usman Bauchi within the three months period stipulated by the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The body viewed the failure of Justice Liman to deliver judgment for nearly four years as a misconduct, contrary to Section 292 (1) (b) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999, as amended and Rules 1.3 and 3.7 of the 2016 Revised Code of Conduct for Judicial Officers of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Meanwhile, the NJC in the exercise of its disciplinary powers under the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended, has suspended the two judges from office pending the approval of their compulsory retirement by their respective state governors. In a related development, the NJC however dismissed petitions against the following judicial officers — Justices O. A. Musa of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, and Muhammed Sambo and Sa’ad Ibrahim Zadawa both of the High Court of Justice, Bauchi State for either lacking in merit or being subjudice. The NJC in another decision also decided to report Messrs Apeiyi Clement, Ifeanyi Egwasi, Nwafor Orizu, Godwin Chukwukwere, Akopde Ukuku, Chief Emefo Etudo, Osamudiamen Obarogie and B. S. Onuegbu to the Legal Practitioners Disciplinary Committee (LPDC) for various acts unbecoming of a legal practitioner ranging from unruly behaviour, walking out of court in the cause of proceedings to submission of false documents to the court. Meanwhile, the NJC at the on-line meeting held on April, 22 and 23, 2020, also constituted a 10-man committee to develop practical strategic measures to be put in place in order to ensure courts continue to function despite the lockdown and Covid-19 challenges. The members include Justice Olabode Rhodes-Vivour, CFR – Chairman, Justice M. B. Dongban-Mensem, Justice J. T. Tsoho, Justice B. B. Kanyip, Justice Ishaq Bello, and Justice Kashim Zannah. Others are Justice O. A. Ojo, Mr Paul Usoro, SAN, Mr. A. B. Mahmoud (SAN) and Mr. D. D. Dodo (SAN). The task of the committee, according to the statement, include developing a guidelines or template for implementation; explore possible areas of collaboration between the Judiciary and the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation, stakeholders in the Justice Administration and Development Partners in Justice Administration Sector. They are also expected to come up with other measures they may deem fit in realising these objectives. The committee has 14 days to submit its report. As part of decisions reached at the meeting, the NJC also considered the report of its Interview Committee and recommended 70 judicial officers for appointment as President, Court of Appeal, Grand Kadis, President, Customary Court of Appeal and Judges of High Court of states and the Federal Capital Territory and Kadis of states Sharia Courts of Appeal. The Council also formally launched its twitter handle @njcNIG and will launch its other platforms at a later date, the statement added.