 The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) yesterday presented two sets of Ventilators, two Intensive Care Unit (ICU) Beds and other items to the Ogun State government towards the effective handling of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in the state. The handing over of the equipment which is part of the RCCG’s contribution to help ameliorate the challenges the people of the state and the country are facing as a result of the global pandemic is in continuation of the effort of the church in other areas in many parts of the country. Handing over the equipment which also included Two Infusion Pumps, One Vital Signs Monitor and one Suctioning Machine, on behalf of the General Overseer of the Church, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, the Assistant General Overseer, Administration and Personnel, Pastor Johnson Funsho Odesola to the Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Alhaja Noimot Salako Oyedele, Odesola said it is part of the contribution of the leadership of RCCG to government’s effort to control the spread of COVID-19 in the state. According to him, the “RCCG has been in the forefront of the efforts to manage the effects of COVID-19 through direct support to governments, donation of surgical face masks, hand gloves and hand sanitizers. “To help cushion the effect of the lockdown on Nigerians, irrespective of their tribe and religion, the RCCG in the last two weeks has distributed not less than 20,000 (1kg) bags of rice and other food items. “It is our prayers that that this crisis will soon be over and that every Nigerian will go back to their daily activities,” he said. Receiving the items on behalf of the governor of the state, Prince Dapo Abiodun, at the brief ceremony held at the Enoch and Folu Adeboye Intensive Care Unit of the RCCG Health Center at the church’s Camp Ground on the Lagos/ Ibadan Expressway, Ogun State, the Deputy Governor commended the church for its efforts, assuring that the equipment which has become a global necessity at this time will go a long way in assisting the state in handling the pandemic. She said, “We extend gratitude to the Redeemed Christian Church of God for this wonderful support to the government of Ogun State’s efforts at addressing the challenges of the COVID-19 in our state. “As you all know this is a very rapidly developing situation all over the world and we have to respond to this unprecedented situation in the state by quickly looking at all the things that are needed to be able to reduce the spread of the disease and if per chance we do get patients that are suffering from this disease and how best to manage them. “What we have seen all over the world is that there is a very high incident of the disease and it is when it becomes a big problem its when people starts having respiratory distress and this is where the intensive care facilities and the ventilators becomes very essential. “Statistics in the country shows that we will not have enough to cope with incidents of the disease if we do have an upsurge and what the Redeemed Christian Church of God has done today has been a big boost to our preparedness to be able to cope with this, if our patients do develop respiratory problems this pieces of equipment will become invaluable in saving lives in this country and I am very happy that the church is supporting us in this aspect “These are pieces of equipments that you cannot get for money or for gold these days, because everybody in the world is looking for them and I am happy because we will be able to use them if it becomes necessary,” she said. Earlier, the Director of the RCCG Health Center at the Camp, Dr. Ibode Olumide, showed off the equipments to the Deputy governor and demonstrated its functions. Other government functionaries on the deputy governors’ entourage include the state commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, Special Adviser to the governor on Media, Hon. Remmy Hassan, the Permanent Secretary of the State Ministry of Health, Dr. Ayinde Adesanya among others.