John Shiklam in Kaduna Gunmen have killed 11 people, including a traditional ruler, in three communities in Kaduna State. This was disclosed in a statement issued yesterday by the spokesman of the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU), Mr. Luka Binniyat. He said the killings took place in Guruku ward, Kuduru village in Chikun and Jagindi, Jema’a Local Government Areas of Kaduna State. He said in Guruku ward, six people were killed yesterday when bandits invaded the area.
He said on Monday, the District Head of Jagindi, Mr. Danlami Barde, and his brother, Musa Barde, were killed when suspected herdsmen attacked the community. Binniyat added that last Thursday, three people were killed in Kuduru by suspected herdsmen who set houses and foodstuff ablaze, rustled cows and looted valuables.
He said those killed in Kuduru include: Hassana Bala, Jamilu Hassan, and Halima Bala, adding that Haliru Nawela and Kure Dogonyaro escaped with grievous gunshot injuries. The statement called on the federal and state governments to deploy security in the ravaged villages and secure lives and property. The statement appealed to good-spirited individuals and corporate bodies to assist victims with food, shelter, and drugs, especially at this time of extreme difficulties. However, when contacted, Public Relations Officer, Kaduna State Police Command, Mr. Mohammed Jalige, said he was not aware of the incidents and promised to find out and get back to THISDAY. However, he had not done so as at press time.
SOKAPU also drew the attention of the people to the reality of the presence of COVID-19 in the state and commended the state government for the proactive measures taken so far to ensure that the virus is contained. “We equally applaud the residents of Kaduna State for abiding by the orders of the government authorities remain in a lockdown situation in spite of the difficult situations associated with this directive. “We encourage the people to continue to obey instructions and cooperate with the law enforcement authorities to ensure that we all remain safe. “Aware that our Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, has been tested positive for the virus, we wish him a quick recovery and restoration of good health,” the statement said. It, however, called on the state government to establish a facility in Kafanchan to handle cases that might arise from the zone, “taking cognisance of the fact that Kaduna South senatorial district does not have a hospital with the capacity to handle any eventual outbreak of the disease.”