By Emmanuel Addeh The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has disclosed that it is set to extend some of its services, including the building of filling stations across neighbouring countries. The Group Managing Director of the corporation, Mele Kyari, had also recently hinted that the move would curb illegal cross-border movement of petroleum products in countries that Nigeria shares borders with. A statement by the Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Dr. Kennie Obateru, further disclosed that the over 600 filling stations belonging to the organisation had also fully complied with the N123.50 pump price of petrol. “The company is planning to extend its services to neighbouring West African countries. Having introduced its high quality lubricants into the market recently, its goal is to consolidate on that as a state-owned company for the economic benefit of Nigerians,” the NNPC said. On the reported sale of petrol above the pump price set by the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) for the month of April by some NNPC stations, Obateru quoted the Managing Director of NNPC Retail Ltd, Billy Okoye, as saying that all of the company’s retail outlets adjusted to the new price immediately the agency came up with the new price band of between N123.50 and N125. While calling on members of the public to always use any of the company’s feedback mechanisms displayed at all its retail outlets to report any sharp practice, the NNPC management said it would not fail to sanction erring dealers. “Last week, the PPPRA announced the new pump price range of N123.50 to N125 for the month of April 2020. What this means is that all stations in Nigeria cannot sell below N123.50 and cannot sell above N125 per litre for the month of April 2020. “NNPC Retail Limited is fully complying with the PPPRA directive as we are neither selling below N123.50 nor selling above N125 per litre in all NNPC retail stations nationwide,” the corporation affirmed. The national oil firm said that it prides itself as the company with the best in terms of price, products quality and quantity (meter integrity), adding that the company and its station are owned by Nigerians and so would always strive to protect the interest of Nigerians. Meanwhile, the corporation has again assured Nigerians of the availability of sufficient petroleum products to guarantee a hitch-free celebration of the Easter festivities. The Managing Director of the Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC), Mr. Musa Lawan, said that although there is restriction of movement orders in parts of the country, PPMC has maintained steady supply of petroleum products across the country. “I want to assure Nigerians that the PPMC has enough petroleum products to go round as they prepare to celebrate Easter. We have up to 2.53 billion litres both in marine and in our inland depots. There is enough petroleum products in stock, and as we speak, some vessels laden with petroleum products are en route to the country,” Lawan said. He revealed that the PPMC would soon automate its processes, maintaining that the deployment of the application would reduce face-to-face interactions with marketers and promote transparency of all its operations. He also urged Nigerians to avoid panic buying or stock-piling of petroleum products because of the associated danger and risks.