By Wole Ayodele Adamawa State Governor, Alhaji Ahmadu Fintiri, has been commended for granting full financial autonomy to local government councils in the state. The Chairman of Shelleng Local Government Area of Adamawa State, Alhaji Danjuma Abdullahi who gave the commendation while fielding questions from newsmen weekend urged other state governors to take a cue from the Adamawa governor and replicate same in their various states. Alhaji Abdullahi noted that by granting financial autonomy to the local government councils in Adamawa State, the governor had fulfilled the promise he made to the people of the state that he would ensure every kobo belonging to the local government goes to the local government. The Chairman maintained that since coming on board, the state government had neither taken a kobo from local government allocation nor interfered with the management of their funds. According to him,”Our Governor, Fintiri has always said before his election that he would give LGs full autonomy if he wins and since he came on board, he has been fulfilling his promises by ensuring that every kobo belonging to the Local Government goes to the local government.” “The autonomy in Adamawa is real. The governor has never interfered with our funds and he’s never tied us down. He left everything to our discretion. “As the executive chairman of my local government and having seen what he’s done, I can only say ‘thank you, thank you,, thank you,,, and may God continue to bless you.” Abdullahi further revealed that due to availability of funds, he had developed a working document tagged ‘vision 2020’ which contains all the projects to be executed in all the ten wards of the local government. He further stated that he had developed an agricultural programme through which he’ll harness the resources of Kiri Dam to establish an integrated rice farm and a rice milling factory as well as an integrated livestock farm and slaughter house and a production factory to produce day old chicks and eggs. “Ultimately, we are going to embark on production of egg milk which will be the first of its kind in the country as well as Africa as a whole”