Kasim Sumaina in Abuja Green Energy International Ltd (GEIL), the operator of the Otakikpo Marginal Field in OML 11 with operational base at Ikuru Town in Rivers State, has awarded a N50 million scholarship to 340 students from Andoni Local Government Area of Rivers State. According to the company, the scholarship would enable the beneficiaries to pursue their education for the 2019/2010 session and covers secondary, undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. The spokesman for GEIL, Olusegun Ilori, in a statement, disclosed that the students were selected after a rigorous qualifying examination from among over 7,000 applicants for the scholarship under the ‘Green Energy Leaders of Tomorrow Scholars’, instituted in 2018 to enhance the education standards of youths of the host community. Presenting the scholarship at the yearly community stakeholders luncheon in Port Harcourt, the Chairman of the company, Professor Anthony Adegbulugbe said the company apart from infrastructural improvements of the communities in its area of operation, considered provision of scholarship as critical to the human capacity development of the communities in Andoni and Rivers State in general. He said the company’s believe that crude oil production is not an end in itself but a means to achieve economic development and other development goals prompted the move towards supporting education as one of the critical pillars of social change in the country. Adegbulugbe recalled that during its five years of operation and engagement with the communities, the company contributed significantly towards achieving some United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through consistent health intervention programmes, the revamping of health facilities through the Johns Hopkins University partnerships, the conservation of animals species programme and infrastructure development through the Community Trusts Fund, among others. He said the thrust of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability work remains capacity building, socio economic growth, environmental protection, promotion of green and energy efficient technologies and upliftment of the marginalised and underprivileged segments of the society. Also, the state Commissoner for Energy and Natural Resources, Dr. Peter Medee commended the board and management of Green Energy for investing in the education of youths in the host communities. He also commended GEIL for its investment in the development of the communities and promised to partner the company in the proposed power generation and LPG production projects being planned for the Andoni area. The chairman of Andoni Local Government Area, Paul Lawrence on his part said the gesture of the company in providing over 340 students with scholarship in one year was unprecedented in the area.
He said the company has proved to be a partner in the progress of the people of his local government and promised to ensure the peaceful operations of the company in the area.