Emmanuel Addeh in Abuja The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has evacuated and placed in isolation residents of an apartment at the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Estate in Garki, Abuja. The disease control agency took the action after an infected individual at an apartment in the estate located in the heart of the Federal Capitalist Territory (FCT) tested positive to the COVUD-19 at the weekend. It was also learnt that the NCDC had begun a complete disinfection of the entire flat and its environs, following the incident which caused panic in the area where some of the corporation’s bigwigs reside. One of the occupants of the estate who was said to have tested positive just returned from the United Kingdom (UK), but had stayed in self-isolation after his return. However, the corporation, while confirming the incident, noted that contrary to insinuations of massive infection in the estate, the case was an isolated one which was being dealt with by the NCDC. It explained that the said case, involved a non-member of staff of the NNPC, who developed symptoms of the disease at the estate. A statement by the corporation’s Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Dr Kennie Obateru, in Abuja, said that the national oil company was aware of all the actions taken by to tackle the singular case, which for now, has remained an isolated incident. “His case was said to have been confirmed positive by the NCDC after undergoing a laboratory test. “And in line with NCDC approved protocol, all residents of the affected apartment were moved out and placed in isolation, while officials of NCDC undertook a disinfection of the flat and adjoining areas to eliminate the chances of community infection,” the organisation stressed. The NNPC said it had long embarked on a public awareness campaign within the organisation and beyond, including sharing with the residents of the estate guidelines on successful self-supervised isolation. It noted that this was to ensure strict adherence to all NCDC prescribed safety measures designed to tackle the COVID-19 global pandemic. Meanwhile, the corporation has announced an additional N10 billion by the petroleum industry to put the total donation so far by the sector at N21 billion. Obateru said that the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, handed over five ambulances to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, who is also the Chairman of the Presidential Taskforce for the Control of Coronavirus (Covid-19), Boss Mustapha in Abuja. The corporation noted that the ambulances marked the first instalment of the industry’s collective donation of N11billion, which it said had been shored up to N21 billion. It added that Aiteo Exploration and Production Company Limited, an NNPC Joint Venture Company partner donated the ambulances. While calling for a collective effort in the fight against the pandemic, NNPC disclosed at the event that the support for the cause was an ongoing one, saying that whatever was received afterwards would be delivered to the committee.