To support the efforts of the federal and state governments in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, Arit of Africa, an indigenous information and communication technology solution provider, is offering its custom-made technology solutions to businesses and organisations in Nigeria at no cost. The company said the gesture was part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) to ensure many businesses continue to stay in operation and interact with local and international clients and partners during the COVID-19 lockdown. The Executive Director and Chief Technology Officer of Arit of Africa Limited, Mr. Olusola Ogunsola explained in a statement that the company fully understood there may be an economic recession of post-COVID-19 which may lead to layoffs and budget cuts. According to Ogunsola, “Companies and organisations will definitely have to look to technology to mitigate the negative impact of the recession. We are working with organisations to either optimise already deployed technology solutions or deploy new cost-effective and efficient solutions that will ensure the organisations save cost and achieve much more with less. “We are a global and local company hence we have extensive understanding and knowledge of the global and local markets. We are best placed to provide tailor-made solutions to sustain the operations of companies post-COVID-19. “Post COVID-19, there will be little tolerance for losses and inefficiencies. Companies need to embrace technology solutions that are cost-saving and efficient.” Ogunsola, said technology solutions have rescued a lot of businesses during the COVID-19 lockdown.
He added that workers, “can work remotely from home; accessing vital company information using very secured VPNs. Meetings can be scheduled with communication solutions like Microsoft Teams, Cisco Webex, Zoom and others.” While commending the Federal and State governments for the steps taken in containing the spread of the virus and the various testing centres commissioned by the government to increase the rate and geographical spread of the testing, Ogunsola said the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on businesses and organisations cannot be over emphasised.
To curb the spread of the coronavirus, the federal government like other nations has enforced lockdown in some states in the country while also shutting the borders to prevent the mass movement of people in and out of the country.