OrderPaper Nigeria has said the Managing Director of Arise TV, Ms. Ijeoma Nwogwugwu; founder of Global Analytics Consulting Limited, Mr. Tope Fasua and a petroleum industry expert, Mr. Joe Nwakwue, among others, will discuss post-COVID-19 petroleum reforms in its augural webinar series. The Executive Director of the advocacy group, Mr. Oke Epia disclosed this in a statement yesterday, noting that the series would deliberate on the implications and way forward for the petroleum sector. The statement said as the nation “grapples with the deleterious effect of the coronavirus pandemic on the economy, OrderPaper Nigeria has set up a series of webinars to engage on the implications and way forward for the petroleum sector. “The webinars will feature thought leaders in the oil and gas industry, economists, civil society leaders, academics and public affairs analysts, among others, to interrogate the virus-induced dwindling fortunes of the sector and proffer solutions as well as opportunities for reforms.” The statement added that the webinar series would hold tomorrow and feature Nwogwugwu Fasua and Nwakwue.
The theme of the conference is ‘the COVID-19 Opportunity for Petroleum Reforms in Nigeria’ and will draw free participation from concerned stakeholders and the general public who are enjoined to register using the link: www.orderpaper.ng/pocopan-webinar/
The statement said the imperative of the series is the urgency of taking advantage of the covid-19 crisis especially at a time when global oil prices have dipped and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) predicted a 3.4 percent shrinking of Nigeria’s economy which could face recession till 2021. “The petroleum sector is in focus because of the global dynamics that could combine to imperil our single-source dependence for national sustenance. “The covid-19 sneeze is, in summary, making our economy catch life-threatening cold that could asphyxiate the country. While this pandemic-induced doldrums peter out, we must not miss the opportunity to reform and reset.”