Ibrahim Oyewale in Lokoja The Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, has ordered an accelerated investigation into the alleged battering of a beauty queen, Elizabeth Oyeniyi, in the state by the state Commissioner for Water Resources, Mr. Abdumumini Danga. The commissioner allegedly assaulted, beat and raped Oyeniyi over a piece of advice to provide succour for the people of his community during the lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19 Danga was said to have been infuriated by the lady’s post on her page and considered it very insulting to his personality.
The victim explained that the commissioner sent his boys after her, and her son and sister, alleging that the boys abducted three of them to the commissioner’s house. “The commissioner beat me and my sister and inflicted injuries on us in the presence of my son. He locked us up and in the night, he raped me severally,” she alleged. In a video clip going viral on social media, Oyeniyi alleged that the commissioner wanted to kill her and vowed not to return to Kogi State for now.
Meanwhile, the state governor has ordered accelerated investigation into the allegation. A statement issued yesterday by the state’s Information Commissioner, Kingsley Fanwo, said the governor was shocked on hearing the news and subsequently ordered a full-scale investigation into the matter. “The governor hereby assures the accuser and accused as well as the public that the whole truth will be uncovered and justice will be served appropriately,” Fanwo stated. According to the statement, “The attention of the Kogi State Government has been drawn to the allegations of assault, battery and other serious crimes levied against Abdumumini Danga who is a serving commissioner in Kogi State. “It is alleged that he is involved in the alleged abduction and assault of a woman which allegedly occurred in Lokoja recently.
“The state Governor, Yahaya Bello, who is an avowed advocate of the fundamental rights of Nigerian citizens, and especially within the boundaries of our dear state, is shocked by these accusations. “The state government reaffirms its unalloyed commitment to the protection of everyone from all forms of oppression, and will not tolerate violence against women or children under any form or guise. We give our word that if these allegations are proven, everyone found culpable will be brought to justice. “We urge our people to continue to observe the protocols of prevention and safety relating to the COVID-19 outbreak, as we reiterate our commitment to keeping our state free of the disease.”