By Onyebuchi Ezigbo The medical aids and professionals being provided by the Chinese government may arrive Nigeria on Wednesday, April 8. Among the materials, which will be arriving the country through a chartered flight by a Nigerian air plane, Air Peace, include 16 tonnes of test kits, ventilators, disinfection machine, disposable medical masks, medicines, rubber gloves, protective gowns, goggles, face shields, infra-red thermometers and other critical care items. The donated items were facilitated by the main contractor handling the rail modernisation programme of the federal government, the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC). In a statement on Tuesday in Abuja, CCECC explained that it sponsored a Chinese medical team and medical supply to Nigeria with the backing of the Federal Government of Nigeria, its home government and its mother company, the China Railway Construction Corporation (‘CRCC’), through its subsidiary CCECC after exhaustive deliberation on how to help the country check the outbreak of the coronavirus. The statement also said that considering its large number of employees in Nigeria, CCECC at its own cost, will dispatch a 15-member working team from CRCC, 12 of whom are experienced medical professionals with expertise in infectious disease, respiratory illness, intensive care, cardiology, neurology, general surgery and anesthesiology. According to the statement, members of the team also have relevant experience in the prevention and diagnosis of the COVID-19. It said that in order to allay the fears of Nigerians, all members of the working team have tested negative to COVID-19 and shall commence their stay in Nigeria by undertaking a 14-day quarantine. It noted that its goal was supporting Nigeria in its fight against the COVID-19 pandemic that is adversely affecting livelihoods and economies across the world by making available necessary medical equipment and health consumables. The statement noted that the chartered flight is due to arrive the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport by 8 April 2020. “These items required by the Nigerian Government will be handed over by CCECC to relevant authorities,” it stated. In addition, under the directive of the Chinese Embassy and in response to the Nigeria Government’s request, the working team may also share with Nigerian medical teams effective methods on how to contain the COVID-19 and provide advice on the use of relevant medical equipment.