Following the World Health Organization’s declaration of COVID-19 as a global pandemic and various measures implemented by governments in the continent to curb the virus, Castle Lager and Trophy Lager have announced the postponement of all 2020 Africa 5s activities to a date yet to be determined. “The impact of COVID-19 as well as the safety and well-being of our consumers and other role players is something we take extremely seriously. In light of measures implemented by governments in the continent and the world over, we have come to a decision to postpone our planned activities to later this year. “We understand that this decision may disappoint the football community, but in the spirit of encouraging social distancing and playing our part in curbing the spread of the virus, we have to make this difficult yet necessary decision on the basis that football is a highly social sport that is enjoyed in large groups,” said Castle Lager Brand Director, Kudzi Mathabire. Africa’s Premier Social League, Africa 5s, a leading movement to connect Africans from different walks of life and as with every year, the winning country champions will compete against other country champions in South Africa on a date that is yet to be confirmed. While the 2020 Ultimate winners of the Africa 5s were set to win a football trip to Milan, Italy, hosted by campaign ambassador, Samuel Eto’o, the seriousness of COVID-19 has led to the decision that for the first time in the history of the Africa 5s, the winners prize will be of monetary value totalling to $15, 000 for each of the teams. “It is unfortunate that participants will not be getting this experience , however, the safety of our consumers remains our number one priority. Furthermore, we truly believe that the teams can use the prize money to better their lives,” said Mathabire. Entries for participants across all countries will effectively be extended to the 31st of July 2020 and will only be through web entries. “Consumers from the various countries will have to stay tuned to the allocated brand communication, where dates for the respective country finals will be communicated,” organizers concluded yesterday.