The festival which took place on Saturday March 28th, 2020 is the first global charity festival that seeks to raise funds to acquire products necessary to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. In an interview with Oscar Mayo, Head of Revenue, Marketing and International Development at LaLiga, he shared insights into the LaLigaSantander Fest- an initiative put together by the Spanish football league to beat COVID-19 by bring music and sports together. When asked about the importance of this initiative, he said, ‘’This initiative which is organized in collaboration with Banco Santander, Universal Music and its sponsors as well as players, clubs, artists and GTS has two main aims. First, we want to give more value and resources to the society by raising money to buy medical supplies to deal with COVID-19 and all funds raised will go towards the purchase of medical supplies in a coordinated effort with the health authorities. As you know LaLiga’s goal is to entertain our fans worldwide, hence the second aim of this project is to entertain our fans across the world in the absence of matches. With millions at home due to the pandemic, we believe by getting footballers and music stars together, this fest will put smiles on their faces”. Speaking on LaLiga’s relationship with music Alicia Arauzo – Director General of Universal Music, “LaLiga has a very close relationship with Universal for several years and one of our artists, Lucas Vidal composed the LaLiga anthem. We are involved with the artists partaking in the fest and we are really proud to say when we reached out to the artists, we got really positive reactions”. A total of 20 top artists of the rank of Alejandro Sanz, David Bisbal, Aitana, Sebastián Yatra or Antonio Orozco, who have never previously been involved in the same event, took part in ‘LaLigaSantander Fest’. Along with them were 20 players from LaLigaSantander teams, who wasted little time in signing up to an initiative rolled out by the clubs’ association. All the participants in the festival participated from their respective homes. This festival is part of the “LaLiga se juega en casa” (LaLiga’s being played at home) campaign, which seeks to support fans throughout this period of quarantine, making it more bearable and raising awareness about the importance of staying at home to halt the spread of COVID-19.