Peter Uzoho Asharami Energy Limited, a Sahara Group Upstream Company, has commenced its recruitment exercise aimed at giving young professionals a shot at honing their careers at the African Exploration and Production Company. Asharami Energy is one of Africa’s leading independent E&P players with a diverse portfolio of nine oil and gas assets in prolific basins across Africa. According to the Managing Director, Asharami Energy, Olajumoke Ajayi, the Sahara Graduate Upstream Trainee Programme was designed to give professionals a solid foundation for a promising career in the upstream sector. Ajayi said the programme would give successful candidates exposure to challenging real-life upstream business scenarios in today’s rapidly evolving business environment, mentorship opportunities to shadow seasoned leaders and experts as well as world class training in practical upstream activities that are tailored to their career aspirations. She said highlights of the programme included formal classroom and practical training for one year, career progression opportunities with clear paths and growth plans, cross-function exposure to several aspects of the sector and in-depth training on the soft skills needed to thrive in a structured business environment. “Asharami Energy is excited about the program and looking forward to welcoming exceptional talent that will add impetus to our drive towards achieving oil production of 100,000 barrels per day over the next five years,” she added. The current programme, among other requirements, features opportunities for individuals with Second Class Upper in their first degrees in Engineering and Geo-sciences. Some of the beneficiaries of the programme expressed delight at their experiences which they summed up as being “a dream come true”. One of them, Adaora Obi-Okoye, said: “My experience in Asharami energy has been exceptional, to say the least. It has surely surpassed all my expectations. Asharami Energy has invested in me as an individual. I can honestly say that it goes beyond honing my skills, I see the organization’s genuine interest in my development as an individual, overall.” Another beneficiary, Olamide Seyi-Olutayo, said: “Working with Asharami Energy has been a tremendous experience as I have learnt to push myself beyond my comfort zone to achieve set goals especially in a fast-paced environment. With great support from a team of highly skilled industry experts and opportunities to learn both on the job and in-class training, I have gained mastery of my role, “said Olamide Seyi-Olutayo. Also, Ifesanmi Tolu-Alao, intoned: “Sahara is not where I work, it’s who I am”. When I saw that mantra for the first time, I thought it was just a nice-sounding phrase, but I soon found out that it was the absolute truth. Being part of Asharami Energy has been a wonderful journey, every day presents a new opportunity for growth and advancement.”