Ericsson and Microsoft are in collaboration to bring their connected vehicle expertise together. Ericsson is building its Connected Vehicle Cloud on top of the Microsoft Connected Vehicle Platform that is running on the Microsoft Azure cloud platform. The integrated solution allows automakers to deploy and scale global vehicle services such as fleet management, over-the-air software updates and connected safety services much easier and faster while reducing costs. It provides flexibility through modular design and multiple deployment options. Ericsson’s Connected Vehicle Cloud connects more than four million vehicles across 180 countries worldwide – approximately 10 per cent of the connected vehicle market. The platform is tailored to fit vehicle manufacturers’ growing demand for scalability and flexibility with the capability of supporting any connected vehicle service. Senior Vice President and Head of Business Area Technologies and New Businesses at Ericsson, Asa Tamsons, said: “The Ericsson and Microsoft partnership will deliver a comprehensive connected vehicle platform at scale to the market. Our integrated solutions will help automotive manufacturers accelerate their global connected vehicle solutions and offer a better experience for drivers and passengers. “This is an exciting new offering with great benefits for the automotive industry, leveraging Ericsson and Microsoft’s technology leadership in connectivity and cloud.” Executive Vice President, Business Development at Microsoft, Peggy Johnson, said: “Together with Ericsson, we intend to simplify the development of connected vehicle services to help car makers focus on their customers’ needs and accelerate the delivery of unique, tailor-made driving experiences.” Ericsson’s Connected Vehicle Cloud offloads vehicle manufacturers’ complexity of global 24/7operations and life cycle management related to connected vehicles with a guaranteed service-level agreement. The Microsoft Connected Vehicle Platform (MCVP) empowers automotive companies to accelerate the delivery of safe, comfortable and personalized connected driving experiences. It combines cloud infrastructure, edge technology as well as AI and IoT services with a diverse partner ecosystem. With MCVP, Microsoft offers a consistent, cloud-connected platform across all digital scenarios on top of which customer-facing solutions can be built, including in-vehicle infotainment, advanced navigation, autonomous driving, telematics and prediction services, and over-the-air updates (OTA). MCVP includes the hyperscale, global availability, and regulatory compliance that comes with Microsoft Azure.