•Commiserates with Kaduna over gas explosion Adedayo Akinwale ín Abuja The House of Representatives has said that it will mobilise relief materials for the victims of fire incident that gutted the Akesan Market in Oyo town, while also expressing shock and sadness over the gas explosion incident in Sabon Tasha, Kaduna. The Speaker, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, expressed regret over the early Sunday morning fire outbreak that claimed the means of livelihood of many traders and also sympathised with the government and people of Oyo State over the fire incident. Gbajabiamila, in a statement issued on Sunday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, commiserated with the victims for the disruption of their economic activities as a result of the unfortunate incident. He stated: “It is with heavy heart that I received the news of the fire outbreak that gutted the popular ancient Akesan Market in Oyo.  “Being a historic ancient market and very dear to the people of Oyo State, I also empathise with the Alaafin of Oyo, HRH. Oba Lamidi Adeyemi over the incident. “I want to appeal to the people to remain calm and law abiding as the government of the state looks into the situation with a view to bringing succour to the victims. Meanwhile, the House Committee on Emergency and Disaster Management alongside the lawmaker representing the area, Rep. Akeem Adeyemi, will wade in to mobilize relief materials.” On the gas explosion, Gbajabiamila lamented that the incident, which occurred at a gas shop, claimed the lives of several people including the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigeria Atomic Energy Commission, Prof. Simon Mallam, and destroyed properties worth millions of naira.
According to him, “It is with shock and sadness that I received the news of the gas explosion incident that claimed the lives of some Nigerians that included Prof. Simon Mallam, the Chairman/CEO of the Nigeria Atomic Energy Commission. “While I sympathise with the state government, the survivors and the families of those that died during the explosion, I also pray for the repose of the souls of those that lost their lives to the explosion. I also want to assure them that they are not alone in this trying times of theirs.”