The year 2020 will kick off on an exciting note for football lovers as the third round of games in the prestigious English FA Cup kicks off on January 4. A live coverage of the thrilling round of games in the oldest football competition in the world will be available to DStv subscribers live in HD. As is custom, top English Premier League teams will begin to participate in the competition from the third round after lower league teams played in the first and second round of games to secure their spots in the knockout competition. The pick of the third round of games is the Merseyside derby on Sunday, 5 January, which will see league leaders Liverpool attempt to continue their dominance over Everton and stay in the race for a domestic double. The Reds are favourites for a first league title in 29 years and may be forced to field fringe players for the FA Cup competition, although they’ll be conscious of a similar decision which cost them a spot in the Carabao Cup Semi-final when they lost to Aston Villa 5-0. All the action from Anfield will be shown live on SS3 at 18:01. Elsewhere, at the Etihad, Manchester City will be expected to land a spot in the fourth round as they host Port Vale on Saturday, 4 January. Pep Guardiola’s team has been left to play catch up to Liverpool in the Premier League this term but the Citizens will not relent in their aim to end the football season with major trophies to their name. The defending champions’ clash with Port Vale will be live on SS6/SS10 at 19:31. Struggling North London club, Arsenal will have their work cut out days later as they welcome Championship outfit Leeds United to the Emirates on Monday, 6 January. The Gunners ran out 1-0 winners the last time both clubs met in the competition in 2012, with club legend Thierry Henry snatching victory for his team with fifteen left to play on his debut for a second stint with the club. The Gunners will, however, relish the clash as the promising centre forward Eddie Nketiah may not feature for Leeds as he continues his season-long loan spell from Arsenal. The interesting encounter will be televised live on SS3 at 20:56. The clash between Manchester United and Wolverhampton Wanderers at the Molineux Stadium on Saturday, 4 January, is a potential banana skin for the Red Devils who have struggled to pick maximum points from mid-table teams in the Premier League this season, and the hosts will be up for the challenge from the kick-off to compound under-fire manager Ole Gunnar Solksjaer’s woes. DStv subscribers can catch all the excitement from the game live on SS3 at 19:31. Other highly interesting games to look forward to their live broadcast on SuperSport channels on DStv include Leicester City vs Wigan Athletic (SS4; 19:31), Chelsea vs Nottingham Forest (SS3/SS10; 16:01), Southampton vs Huddersfield Town (SS4; 17:01), Brighton & Hove Albion vs Sheffield Wednesday (SS6/SS13; 17:01) and many more.