Omololu Ogunmade in Abuja The presidency last night attacked the Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, over his call for President Muhammadu Buhari’s resignation, describing it as a stray comment. A statement by the presidential spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, which described Abaribe as an arm-chair critic, said if Buhari had to resign, then Abaribe and millions of other Nigerians would have to also resign. He accused the fiery senator of lacking the moral right to call for Buhari’s resignation because he aided the escape of the leader of the Independent People of Biafra (IPOB), Mr. Nnamdi Kanu. According to the statement, Abaribe ought to have replaced Kanu in Correctional Facility for failing to produce Kanu for whom he stood as surety, stressing that Buhari is fixing the country and striving to keep the country safe. The statement read: “Just because some characters think that President Buhari should resign, then they expect him to quit. That call does not represent the opinion of the country. “This is the opinion of an arm-chair critic, known for making stray comments. If a leader like President Buhari needs to resign, there are millions of other Nigerians who need to resign, including Senator Abaribe who unlocked the door to enable the escape of traitorous and treasonable suspects. “He signed the bond for the court to release Nnamdi Kanu on bail, from which moment the suspect disappeared into the thin air. Senator Abaribe has failed repeated deadlines to return Kanu to the court for trial, yet he has the effrontery with which to accuse someone of failing to the bidding of the law. “This is a man who should have replaced the suspects he failed to produce in the correctional facility. Abaribe’s party raped the nation and left it collapsing in 2015 and President Buhari is fixing things up all the years he is in office. “President Buhari is working hard to keep Nigeria and Nigerians out of the harm terrorists have unleashed in the entire Sahel and Sub-Saharan Africa with the support of Nigerians and our foreign friends; he is going to finish off these terrorists. He alone can do it.”