Deji Elumoye in Abuja  Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, has given an assurance that  the Ninth National Assembly will not hesitate to challenge any infraction on the part of the Executive as the Assembly resumes from recess next Tuesday. He also stressed that on no condition will the Assembly be distracted from carrying out its mandatory legislative duties. Speaking on Friday morning shortly after returning from a three-week private visit abroad, Lawan declared that “where we feel that there is a breach of procedures and processes by the executive arm of government, we will insist that the right things are done. “So it doesn’t mean that because we are peaceful and that we are cordial with the executive arm of government that we are rubber stamp but that is something that will not distract us.” According  to him, no amount of blackmail will discourage the present Assembly from working with the executive arm of government for the betterment of the people. Lawan who was responding to a belated birthday presentation by his North East Support Group at  Dutse Airport in Jigawa State on his way to his Yobe North Senatorial District in Yobe State, emphasised that: “The ninth National Assembly is a National Assembly that is focused, that is united, that is determined to make a positive difference in the lives of Nigerians. “We are so terribly misunderstood that when we say that we are going to work with the executive arm of government in a very harmonious and productive manner, some people, some out of misunderstanding, some out of mischief, say it’s a rubber stamp National Assembly. “But let me say this: no amount of distractions or blackmail will stop us from being united in the National Assembly for the benefit of Nigerians who elected us and nothing will discourage us from working with the executive arm of government for the betterment of our country.  “As a legislature we know where our limits lie in terms of cooperation and in working with the executive arm of government. But we are going to give the President and his team every possible legislative support that they require to make this country better and greater. He further said: “We have seen what a “rubber stamp” National Assembly could do. We have already passed so many important and critical legislations within the last six months and if that is what we can be achieving with that kind of understanding, so be it.” Lawan also expressed satisfaction with the prevailing cordiality among members of the National Assembly and sought the support and understanding of the citizenry. His words: “Our colleagues in the Senate particularly and generally in the National Assembly have given us every support that we need to perform our functions as a legislature. “We are going to continue to seek for your support and understanding and the support of all Nigerians in this enterprise. We believe governance is not only for those who are elected or appointed. Governance is for everybody. Those who are elected and appointed and those who will hold the offices in trust for. So you should continue to pray for us. You should continue to advise us. You should continue to ensure that we don’t derail,” the Senate President said.