By Tosin clegg The Hennessy ‘Never Stop, Never Settle’, tells the story of individuals who are driving towards change, by transforming their creative passions into thriving business ventures, and in doing so, boldly challenge us to see the world through innovative eyes – a world where the ‘old rules’ no longer apply. The second installment of the Hennessy Very Special (VS) distinctive brand campaign ‘Never Stop, Never Settle’ features eight African trendsetters. One of the Nigerian Ambassadors everyone, especially in Nigeria and Africa views across all social media platforms is Onye Ubanatu. Acclaimed International Photographer, Joshua Wood captures each ambassador in their element for the campaign. Growing up in the historic city of Warri in Delta State, Ubanatu has always been inspired to create something out of nothing. His determination has led him to a successful career as a Content Producer, Strategic Event Producer, and Creative Director. Onye will go every length to capture the heart of every story through his lens and charming style of connecting with his subject. A true African Creative Entrepreneur is how he describes himself in the campaign video. His works are good enough to tell his story. He said, “When I started in the ‘90s, it was from almost nothing, growing up in the ghetto. I am passionately driven by the need to tell compelling and inspiring stories of how Africa and we as Africans keep rising through different challenges to become world class. And this narrative should be told by us and told from a place of strength and beauty. And this recognition and opportunity by Hennessy means a lot to me.” An exciting factor about the campaign is the selection of its ambassadors, how their stories appeal and inspire the everyday evolving creative entrepreneur in Africa. Personally, I believe this is a step forward for the brand and looking forward to seeing more of the ambassadors in action. So, like the brand’s message and that of Onye Ubanatu and the fellow campaign ambassadors say, we must Never Stop Never Settle.