The management of Halogen has congratulated Nigerian world wrestling medalist and two times Commonwealth champion, Odunayo Adekuoroye for winning Nigeria’s only gold medal at the recently held Matteo Pellicone Ranking Series tournament in Rome, Italy where she defeated her Indian opponent 10-0 through technical superiority in the final to land gold. According to the Group Managing Director of Halogen Group, Mr. Wale Olaoye, “Halogen Group is proud to celebrate with Adekuoroye Odunayo and Nigerians globally, as she defeated India’s Anshu Anshu, 10-0 to win gold in the women’s 57kg at the 2020 Matteo Pellicone Ranking Series tournament in Rome. This no doubt its a historic period for Nigeria’s sports at the global level. We are delighted with Odunayo’s impressive exploits. This is a reflection of what Halogen Group stands for; professionalism, integrity, passion, and excellence.” Mr. Olaoye added that “Halogen Group is proud to be part of Nigeria’s quest for Olympic gold medal through support for the Commonwealth wrestling Amazon. Odunayo’s sterling performance at the recent United World Wrestling (UWW) Ranking Series events in Italy an inspiring pointer to what Nigerians can expect at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic. We are proud of her unstoppable spirit” The Halogen Group’s boss noted further that Nigerian youths have huge lessons to learn from the wrestling champion whose hard work, and unrelenting passion for excellence is bringing great results to her enterprise and Nigeria. Earlier, the Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Mr. Sunday Dare had commended Odunayo for her outstanding feat at the global outing. “I am not surprised really, she is a true representation of the never say die Nigerian spirit. She is always eager to win laurels for the country…Don’t forget she was adopted at the Adopt Initiative launch. She will get all the needed support to train and continue in that manner. We as Nigerians should be proud of her” said the Minister of Sports. Halogen Group reiterated its determination to continue to identify with great initiatives that resonate with its vision to create an anxiety-free world. 