Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano A former Governor of Kano State, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, yesterday said he had “no regret” making a former governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi II, the Emir of Kano. He also prayed to God Almighty to “save Kano State and indeed the whole country from the present quagmire that we found ourselves”. According to him, the appointment and coronation of the Emir of Kano involved a consultative process that is guided by law, adding that as the then Governor of Kano State, he knew the type of people to consult when it comes to such critical issues that centres around on life-long appointments like the successor of the late Emir Ado Bayero. The former Minister of Defence was responding to the comments by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje (his former Deputy), during the public presentation of a book entitled, ‘Dear President Goodluck Jonathan (An Open Letter),” written by a former Managing Editor of the Daily Times Newspaper, Bonaventure Melah. Ganduje had at the event held in Abuja, said he dethroned Sanusi in March 2020, to save the traditional institution from abuse, even though he was not the best among the contestants. But Kwankwaso in a statement by his Principal Private Secretary, Muhammad Inuwa, entitled: ‘Ganduje and the blabbering of an impostor’, said he opted for the ex-CBN governors because he was looking for a progressive Emir that would succeed Ado Bayero. He said, “Certainly, everyone that knows Governor Ganduje will attest that he (Ganduje) is not progressive and hence that was why Kwankwaso deliberately refused to consult him on the choice of Muhammad Sanusi II as new Emir. “If not for the colossal standing of Goodluck Jonathan, Ganduje’s presence at the event would have affected what is otherwise a fantastic gathering of respectful Nigerians. “We were therefore not surprised, given Governor Ganduje’s reputation for shamelessness that he attended such an event merely to spread lies and mischief with regards to the coronation and the subsequent illegal dethronement of the Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II. “Therefore, the choice of Muhammad Sanusi II was made among other contestants because he is the most knowledgeable in both Islamic and western education. “He is the most experienced and enjoys a tremendous amount of support and goodwill from the kingmakers, the Emirate council, and indeed the good people of Kano State; this was what informed his appointment.”