Bennett Oghifo Julius Berger Nigeria Plc., Nigeria’s foremost engineering construction company, has bagged the 2020 service “merit award for excellence” of the Nigeria Immigration Service. This was announced at the 2020 end of year award ceremony which took place at the Nigeria Immigration Service headquarters, Abuja, recently. Speaking at the ceremony, the Comptroller General of the Nigeria Immigration Service, Muhammed Babandede, welcomed everyone and thanked them for coming for the event. He particularly thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for making NIS successfully achieve and realise the beautiful edifice. Julius Berger Nigeria Plc is the contractor that constructed the new NIS Technology Building Data Command and Control Centre. This award was confered on Julius Berger for the company’s innovativeness productivity, comprehensive technical and administrative resourcefulness, detailed design competences as well as top class engineering capacities displayed by company while working closely with the NIS and the Consultants for the successful delivery of the Building. The Julius Berger Nigeria Plc delegation to the ceremony was led by Engr. Mohammed Usman, a management staff who also received the award on behalf of the company. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Interior, Dr. Shuaibu Belgore, presented the award to Julius Berger on behalf of the Management of the Nigerian Immigration Service. Thirty one awards were presented to winners at the ceremony. The awards were in two categories. Twenty eighty awards were presented to Officers of the Service for their resourcefulness, gallantry, exemplary behaviour, diligent hard work and dedication to duties. A new a post-humus award was introduced for officers who died on duty, and the other three awards were presented to Technical partners of the NIS, including Julius Berger. Other important dignitaries who attended the ceremony included DCG Idris Issa Jere; the Chairman House Committee on Interior, Hon. Hon. Nazir Zango Daura; the Senior Special Assistant to the Minister of Interior, who represented the Minister, Rauf Aregbesola; the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Dr. Shuaibu Belgore; representatives from FRSC, Nigeria Correctional Centre, Civil Defence Corps, seniors officers of NIS, among others.