Vanessa Obioha chronicles the exciting moments and surprises of GOtv Iconic Tour with Laycon For the iconic fans of Big Brother Naija Lockdown edition winner and new GOtv ambassador, Laycon, these past few days have been nothing short of awesomeness. From his hometown Abeokuta to the bustling Abakpa Nike market in Enugu, fans of the witty lyricist came out in droves to celebrate and identify with the iconic winner as he toured different parts of the country with GOtv. The campaign tour was to promote the festive season offer from Nigeria’s leading terrestrial television platform GOtv. New customers on GOtv can now get the Jolli package for only N8,400 – which comes with a decoder, GOtennae and 1-month GOtv Jolli subscription. The tour saw Laycon visiting Abeokuta, Uyo, Enugu Abuja and capping it in Lagos. Since he emerged winner of the most popular TV reality show in Africa, Laycon has been riding the crest of newfound stardom. Born Olamilekan Agbeleshe, the young star was unknown until he entered the competition, stunning both viewers and fellow competitors with his wittiness and rap skills. Shortly after he was crowned the winner of the show, he was announced as the new face of GOtv. “We could have picked anybody,” said the Chief Customer Officer of MultiChoice Nigeria Martin Mabutho during the announcement, hinting at the tight race between those considered for an ambassadorial role. “We are a brand that is at the centre of families, we cannot be associated with brand ambassadors that cannot live up to our core values.” Laycon assumed his ambassadorial role with the ‘GOtv Five-City Iconic Tour with Laycon’ which kicked off on November 26. The first stop for the 27-year-old was Abeokuta, Ogun State, where he spent two days granting media rounds and connecting with fans in different areas of the iconic town such as the popular Kuto garage and market, the bustling Oke Ilewo Street and Sapon market. To show that fame has not eroded his cultural values, the young entertainer stopped by the ‘amala halaga’ joint in Pansheke where he thanked the locals for their support during his time in the BBNaija House. Before he departed the town, he had a special meet and greet with fans and GOtv customers at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library where he talked about the GOtv Jolli offer and the content line-up this festive season. By December 3, Laycon landed on Uyo, Akwa Ibom where he received a warm welcome at Akwa Ibom airport upon arrival. He proceeded to pay a courtesy visit to the Honourable Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Comrade Ini Ememobong at the Ministry’s Headquarters in Idongesit Nkanga Secretariat, Uyo. This visit was to inform the commissioner of his presence in the state. In Uyo, Laycon’s tour was lined up with fun activities as well as visits to iconic places in the serene city. For instance, he made a special appearance at the opening ceremony of the Christmas Village which is the biggest trade centre for the city during the Christmas holiday season. The cheering crowd presented him with a welcome cake and a personalised artwork. His tour availed fans from the state and surrounding environs to know him more. His interviews in top media houses granted fans an opportunity to know his lifestyle as he talked about his humble beginnings, rise to stardom and future projects which include the first Showmax Nigerian original reality show ‘I am Laycon’. He also talked about the GOtv Jolli offer and how the brand is offering them a jolly Christmas with the sales discount and content lineup. In each part of the city he stormed, Laycon caused a frenzy. His fans were ecstatic to show off their skills to him. Thus, there were freestyle rap battles, fun dance competitions, presentation of gifts by elated icons as well as rewards for fans. Other places the rising star visited include Ikot Ekpene Road and Abak Road where he made stops at the Mfonkachi and Eastland MultiChoice Dealer offices. For the third leg of the tour, Laycon visited the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The two-day campaign tour commenced on December 10, with media rounds at top radio stations. This was followed by a town storm at the business district, Maraba/Nyanya Axis where fans came out in multiple droves to felicitate with their iconic idol. A special meet and greet with fans and GOtv subscribers held at Casa Mexicana, Ceddi Plaza, Tafawa Balewa Way, where again, he intimated them on his upcoming projects, what keeps him motivated and his intention to influence others who share his passion for music. The five-city tour with Laycon continued in Enugu state on December 12 with radio interviews and roadshows at the bustling Abakpa Nike market and Nowas, Trans Ekulu. The ambassador made a courtesy visit to the office of the Executive Governor of Enugu State, Ifeanyi Ugwuwanyi, who expressed his delight at having the winner of the BBNaija Lockdown edition in the state. The following day witnessed another meet and greet session with fans at the Polo Park Mall where he talked about the GOtv Jolli Offer and content line-up for the festive season. Wrapping up his tour in Lagos, Laycon went on media rounds, connecting with fans as he encouraged them to subscribe to the GOtv Jolli package for exciting offers in the yuletide season.