Segun Awofadeji in Gombe The Gombe State Independent Electoral Commission (GOSIEC) yesterday declared the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the winners of all chairmanship and councilor elections in the contest. The Chairman of the commission, Saidu Shehu Awak declared the results after the electoral officers concluded the collation of results in 11 local government areas (LGAs) and 114 wards in the state. Based on the results collated by the electoral officers, GOSIEC’s chairman declared the APC as winner of all positions in the council elections. The chairman, in accordance with section 26 (1-2) of the Gombe State Independent Electoral Commission Law 2013 as amended, and as the chief returning officer of the commission, declared the following candidates of the APC who scored the highest number of votes as winners. In Akko LGA, he declared Abubakar Usman- Barambu Chairman with Mahmud Saleh Tabra as Deputy Chairman; Garba Umar as Chairman with Salamu Ezekiel as Vice Chairman in Balanga LGA and Margaret Bitrus as Chairman with Rev. Panuel Nicodemus Lashobok as Vice Chairman in Billiri LGA. He also declared that Jamilu Shabewa won in Dukku LGA as Chairman with Umar Manu Malala as Vice Chairman and Ibrahim Adamu Cheldu won in Furnakaye LGA as Chairman with Muazu A. Yahaya Tongo as Deputy Chairman In Gombe LGA, Aliyu Usman Haruna emerged Chairman with Gambo Sulaiman Garko as Deputy Chairman; Faruk Aliyu Umar as Chairman with Solomon Lande as Vice Chairman in Kaltungo LGA; Ibrahim Buba as Chairman with Muhammadu Musa Kolo as Vice Chairman in Kwami LGA. Also, in Nafada LGA, Musa Abubakar emerged Chairman with Salisu Shuaibu Dandele as Deputy Chairman; Yohannah Nahar as Chairman with Ambrose Alfred ( Bobby) as Vice Chairman in Shongom LGA and Shuaibu Umar Galadima as Chairman with Garba Usman as Vice Chairman in Yamaltu Deba LGA. The chairman said three political parties, which participated in the elections, included the APC, PDP and PRP. The declaration was made in the presence of leaders of the Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC), members of the Civil Society, the Media, the Nigeria Police and other security outfits as well as representatives of candidates.