Airopay, a payment infrastructure solution company, has launched a digital payment app that will allow its users, both individuals and businesses in Africa and around the world to transact locally and internationally from the comfort of their mobile devices. The app seeks to address customers’ continuous frustration during financial transactions at various pay points, despite the myriad of digital payment apps in Africa. Airopay was designed as a one-stop app to enable payments for users when at home or abroad as it provides users the ability to directly pay bills in Nigeria, make transfers and also receive cash regardless of their geographical locations at super fast speed from a mobile phone. Speaking during the launch, Airopay Chief Executive Officer, Charles John Oyakhilome, said the whole idea of the app was to digitize payments in Africa and beyond. “The ultimate goal of the brand is to make mobile payments across borders very easy,” he said. The Director of Strategy and Business Growth at AiroPay, Kelechi Mbah, said: “Airopay has many unique services to offer in the Fintech space as we are set to ensure a life made easy. While it may look like the market is saturated, there are still many gaps which Airopay has carefully designed its services to fill. Also, the Airopay App is set to give the general public a unique experience of ease and swiftness for both international and local fund transfers with zero per cent downtime. The platform will provide economic empowerment for entrepreneurs, merchants and retailers.” The Chief Financial Officer at Airopay, Mr. Adedayo Johnson, said : “Our users will enjoy an unbeatable interest rate of 16 per cent on savings, access to Loans within 24 hours and bill payment transactions, different from what the general public has experienced.” Explaining how the app works, Oyakhilome said customers could download the app from Google Play Store for Android users or iOS for iPhone users, before signing up and move cash from their personal accounts to the Airopay e-account. “Users will be able to easily fund, withdraw, save, transfer money and pay for goods and services, locally or internationally with their mobile devices, after funding the Airopay e-account,” Oyakhilome said.. According to him, AiroPay Mobile Money service accommodates deposits and withdrawals, including cardless ATM withdrawals, transfer between accounts, domestic remittances, third party or non-registered user deposits to accounts. It also offers a platform for payment of utility bills such as water, electricity, PayTV, purchase of flight tickets for local and international flights, international and local airtime top up, payment of tuition for over 100 educational institutions, international and local fund transfers, bill payments for betting, lottery and games at zero per cent downtime. He listed other services to include: Termination of international remittances to wallet, QR code supported retail and merchant payments and registration of any payment card on the end-user application for recharge and QR code supported retail payment systems.