By Peter Uzoho The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) has donated ventilators to two tertiary health institutions in Lagos -the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) and the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH).
\
The donations which were part of the distribution company’s intervention in the fight against COVID-19 and future health emergencies, were made simultaneously in one day with two separate teams from EKEDC deployed to each of the hospitals for the presentation of the ventilators. The Chief Human Resources Officer, EKEDC, Mr. Aik Alenkhe, who led the team to LUTH, handed over the equipment to the hospital, pledging the company’s readiness to continue to impact positively on its customers and communities. Alenkhe said: “CSR is important for us at Eko Disco and we will continue to play a leadership role in making sure that we impact on our customers and the communities where we do business. “It has been said that you make a living by what you earn, you make life by what you do and that is what we stand for in Eko Disco. We all know what COVID-19 is doing in the global community today. “It’s not just a health crisis; it’s a social and economic crisis that has completely changed the landscape globally; and we don’t want to be taken unaware. “We don’t want to be caught up in a second lockdown situation and we believe as a company that we should be proactive in supporting not just healthcare institutions like LUTH but also supporting the government and other stakeholders even the private sector to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. “And that’s exactly why we are here today. We hope this equipment will be deployed optimally, maximally and ultimately help to not only contain the COVID-19 pandemic but also save lives.” Receiving the equipment on behalf of the hospital’s management, the Chairman, LUTH Medical Advisory Committee, Prof. Wasiu Adeyemo, appreciated EKEDC for the donation, noting that the corporate bodies in the country had supported them immensely. Adeyemo said it would have not been possible for the hospital to achieve the little success it had achieved without support from companies like EKEDC, who he said, had taken the responsibility to be there for them in time of need.