 This year’s entry for the sixth edition of the Kwara Open Golf Tournament has been limited to 100 participants in a bid to allow for full compliance with Covid-19 protocols. Luqman Owolewa, a former Board Member of the Nigeria Golf Federation and Consultant/ Marketer for the event said the number of golfers registering online has been increasing by the day but a decision was taken to restrict the number of entries to 100 as having a full course will be counter productive to efforts of the government in curbing the spread of Covid 19. “Golf by design allows for easy compliance with social distancing already but other measures that will limit contacts and promote hygienic practices during play have been put in place,” he further assured golfers during the practice round yesterday. Aside players from the host club, a number of golfers teeing off this morning came in from Ibadan, Ekiti, Minna, Shagamu, Kaduna, Abeokuta, Tiger, Shiroro, Ikeja, and Ikoyi Golf Clubs, among others. Top among players that practiced yesterday included, Dr Isaac Ishola, the proprietor of Hassabary Golf Club, Shaki, Alhaji Tajudeen Oladipo, former Commissioner for Works, Osun State and Ganni Elelu Sanni, the Managing Director of Northern Nigeria Investment Limited, Kaduna. Meanwhile, Chief Dele Arowolo, Director of OPAS Nigeria Limited one of the co-sponsors of the event has also arrived to be part of the event. “Kwara Open is a major event for us here and most golfers across the country have come to identify it as one trademark event and that is why it has such a huge following,” Owolewa added. This year’s edition, which would be judged over 18 holes, is sponsored by the Kwara State government, with Kwara Internal Revenue Service, Noktel Resort and Hotel, Femtech a renowned IT company and OPAS Nigeria Limited as co-sponsors. Captain of the Club, Chief Ray Okafor, had earlier said during the week that the golf course has been put in good shape ahead of the weekend’s activities while stressing that participants would be expected to observe all Covid-19 protocols as highlighted by the National Centre for Disease Control. In the last edition, the amateur event was won by homeboy Ibrahim Usman popularly known as ‘Attai’, while Sunday Olapade of MicCom Golf Club, Ada won the professional category.