The Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Crediometer, Mr. Adewumi George has expressed optimism to expand company’s branch operations in the next three years. George said there had been tremendous increase in customers base as it currently recorded over 6000 users and an average of 1000 daily users. George, who is a graduate of Lagos Business School, Pan-Atlantic University and Federal University of Technology, Akure, made this disclosure known to newsmen at a briefing held recently in Lagos. He said the company’s approach towards proper handling of the small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the country would impact positively on the Nigerian economy, since SMEs are strong drivers of economies. “We are very very optimistic that we will have a Crediometer agents or banking outlets in every street in Nigeria in the next three years. “We are hopeful that our customer base will experience surge even though we currently have over 6000 users and an average of 1000 daily users. “It is unarguable that the major contributor to any economy is the the small and medium scale traders. “This is because growing businesses are the background of the economy; hence, taking good care of this sector will definitely positively impact the growth of our business specifically and country generally,”, George said. While speaking on the rationale behind the creation of the Crediometer platform, he said it was borne out of the foreseeability of boundless credit transactions. The Founder said there was foresight of unhindering access to financial services to be compared to the traditional mode of carrying out credit activities. George further explained that there would be no request for collateral or guarantor for loans and other credit facility except for character and competence. He said his love for finance and technology was not out of place while growing with experts in the finance area. “We see a future where every human being would have access to financial services and be able to provide financial services to his(er) families and the society. “We see a future where every human being would have access to credit, not be the numbers of collateral or guarantor rather by the content of their character and competence
“My love for finance and Technology could be traced down to growing up with financial experts and my interest in technology,” George said.