By Kingsley Nwezeh The military high command yesterday sought more credible information from North-east residents to enable it contain insurgency. Military authorities had raised issues with insufficient information on insurgents by local communities, whom out of fear, prefer to interact with insurgents and suppress intelligence on the movement and activities of terrorists. Speaking at a recent media briefing in Abuja, Coordinator of the Directorate of Defence Media Operations (DDMO), Major General John Enenche, said the 43 farmers slaughtered by insurgents in Zabarmari in Borno State had attended a meeting called by the insurgents before their execution, a meeting which he said was not the first time. This is coming as troops of Operation Fireball in collaboration with the Civilian Joint Task Force (JTF) yesterday killed four insurgents in Magumari Village in Borno State. The update issued by the Acting Director, DDMO, Brigadier-General Bernard Onyeuko, urged North-east residents “to avail the troops with credible information that will help in the execution of the operation”. It assured them of the military’s determination to rout terrorists from the zone. “The entire populace of the North-east region are hereby assured of the Nigerian military high command’s determination to finally rout the remnants of Boko Haram and the Islamic State’s West Africa Province criminals from their enclaves in this zone. “They are also encouraged to avail the troops with credible information that will help in the execution of the operation,” it said. The military update said following actionable intelligence on the activities terrorist group, Boko Haram, troops of 222 Battalion in conjunction with elements of Borno State Civilian Joint Task Force conducted an aggressive fighting patrol to the general area of Margumari village. It said troops made contact and immediately engaged some marauding Boko Haram criminals lurking in the area. “During the brief but decisive encounter, four Boko Haram criminals were neutralised while one FN Rifle, one AK 47 Rifle, two FN Rifle magazines and four AK 47 Rifle magazines were captured from the fleeing criminals. “Additionally, 29 rounds of 7.62mm NATO ammunition, 39 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, two motorcycles, motorcycle repair tools and one Tecno phone were also captured,” it said.