Nord Automobiles Limited has launched five models assembled in Nigeria, introducing the much needed excitement in the Nigerian auto industry. On the line-up presented at the Landmark event centre, Victoria Island Lagos, were five solid models, representing passenger and commercial vehicles. The five Nord models assembled in Lagos and unveiled are the Nord sedan A3; the Nord SUV A5; Nord Flit mini bus; Nord Max pick up; and Nord Tank pickup. According to the Chief Executive Officer of the company, Mr. Oluwatobi Ajayi, Nord was born out of the need to check the importation of substandard vehicles into Nigeria, and to drastically reduce the huge amounts spent annually on automobile importation. He stated that the fast-evolving Nigerian market has shown a strong demand for vehicles that are stylish, comfortable and have premium features, hence, Nord models have come to meet the demand.
With the launch of these vehicles, he added, “we aim to exceed expectations by offering our customers world standard products at very competitive prices.” “The Nord vehicles are designed for the discerning customer, who craves daily satisfaction and full automobile experience. They are a perfect combination of style, performance and fuel efficiency.”
Exterior design: The exterior design of any Nord vehicle replicates class and luxury with a striking presence and bold looks to make sure that your car stands out anywhere you are. The popular Nord Tank has a led daylight running light and a four-wheel drive, the exteriors are powerful and elegant. Interior design: The interior design is rich and sophisticated and includes several features including a one-button drive function, Eco-drive system, touch screen infotainment, blue tooth, audio streaming, HDMI-in-slots, USB-in-slots. The interior is made with premium upholstery. Safety Features: Nord vehicles are equipped with Antilock Braking System, Electronic Brake Distribution, dual front airbags, and with the highest safety rating by Euro NCAP and C-NCAP. Colour Variants: Nord vehicles have over 6 different colours variant to customize your car with, with options on the website to customize your vehicle giving it a personalised feel. Safety Service and warranty: Delivery of the models would begin immediately, from dealers. The Nord vehicles would offer complete peace of mind with 1 FREE scheduled maintenance at 3 months or 5000km. Customers can opt for an extended after-sales plan for total peace of mind. Nord Mission and Objective: To be a global automotive company that designs and assembles premium vehicles at relatively competitive price while offering easy access to full ownership and superior after-sales service.