By Funmi Ogundare Lagos State University (LASU) is set to graduate a total of 8,959 graduates with 76 bagging First class honours degree in various faculties of the institution which is the highest in its history. Vice Chancellor of the institution, Professor Olanrewaju Fagbohun, who briefed journalists on its 24th convocation ceremonies for the 2018/2019 academic session which will kick-off with a convocation cup competition for staff on March 20, said the ceremony will witness some infrastructure/street naming ceremony after individuals who have contributed immensely to LASU. They include: Deji Femi-Pearse, Akin Kekere- Ekun, Bode Augusto, Akibo Savage, Isiaka Ishola Oluwa. Others are: Kehinde Williams, Omotayo Seriki, J.K Randle and Adebayo Ninalowo. He added that some buildings will also be named after its former Vice Chancellors including, Akanni Hussein Radiation Centre, Abisogun Leigh Main Science buildings which will hold on March 23. The VC said it will also hold a convocation lecture titled, ‘The Future of Developing Economies in a Digital World to be delivered by the President, African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank), Professor Benedict Okey on March 26. Former Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, is expected to chair the occasion. The institution will also confer honorary doctorate degree award on Senator Oluremi Tinubu (Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters), Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire (Honorary Doctor of Arts), Mr. Adeyemi Makanjuola (Honorary Doctor of Science), Honorable Justice Opeyemi One (Honorary Doctor of Law), Dr. Oba Otudeko (Honorary Doctor of Business), as well as Mr. Segun Julius Agbaje (Honorary Doctor of Science). A breakdown of the number of first class graduands showed that the faculty of Arts produced four, faculty of Basic Medical Science produced one, faculty of Education 12, faculty of Engineering had six, faculty of Law had 2, faculty of management sciences produced 17, with the best graduating student, Oladimeji Idris Shotunde who had a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.95; School of Transport produced one, while faculty of Science and Social Science had 24 and 8, respectively. A breakdown of other classes of degrees showed that a total of 1,183 had Second Class Upper division, 4,494 had second class lower, 418 finished with third class honours, while 26 had pass. For the higher degrees, the institution will confer a total of 35 doctorate degrees, 1034 professional masters, 664 academic masters degree and 887 postgraduate diplomas. Emphasising on the best graduating student, Fagbohun expressed delight about his achievements saying, “It is instructive that Shotunde and another of his colleague, Kehinde Adebiyi, have just written a book titled, ‘Nature Pays Diligence’, a compendium that chronicles their experience of the last four years. We are very proud of this initiative of theirs in that it will go a long way to help those who are coming behind.” The VC said the university will hold a dinner on March 27 in honour of its first class graduands and in recognition of their sterling performances.