By Peter Uzoho The Managing Director of the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Limited, Mr. Tony Attah, has emphasised the need for Nigeria to accelerate the development of its gas resources before competition from renewable energy sets in. Attah, also advised that the country must be well positioned to capitalise on the gains of gas as a major energy source in the energy transition. The NLNG henchman stated this during his recent visit to the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, and the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari, to brief them about recent award won by the company. Attah explained that the company was recognised as a joint winner in a nomination group consisting of top LNG companies, for its growth strategy and for the bold decision by NLNG’s shareholders to proceed with the Train 7 project amid the COVID-19 pandemic. He said the award was a testament to the deliberate commitment of the country to develop and monetise its vast gas reserves for the benefits of Nigerians. The managing director in a statement by the NLNG General Manager, External Relations and Sustainable Development, Mrs Eyono Fatayi-Williams, said the award was a win-win for Nigeria. He stated that the company was strengthened by the renewed commitment of the federal government to make gas a priority energy source for the country. He added that the decision by the federal government to declare the next 10 years as the ‘Decade of Gas’ would further drive the zeal to monetise the country’s gas resources and would ensure that Nigeria, through NLNG, has a major role to play in the energy transition. “We are delighted to be recognised for our contributions. This award is very special; it has come in a year when we strived under the impact of the pandemic to sustain our business and to keep our people safe. “2020 is a year of many dimensions for different companies, but it has turned out to be a remarkable year on the back of our ambition to grow and increase our production capacity by 35 per cent from 22 Million Tons Per Annum (MTPA) to 30 MTPA. “This ambition led to our signing the EPC for Train 7 project in May 2020. Our ambition is coming to life,” he said. Attah said NLNG’s passion for growth and its vision of ‘Helping to Build a Better Nigeria’ had already earned NLNG the THISDAY Company of Decade award, stating further that the company was poised for the future with the support of the minister and other major stakeholders. He commended the minister for achieving major milestone gas projects during the year which he said, included the declaration of the ‘Decade for Gas’, the AKK Gas Pipeline Project and the Autogas/AutoCNG scheme