Top security practitioners, politicians, business executives, traditional rulers and many others from different walks of life are expected at the 29th edition of the annual lecture/award ceremony of the Crime Reporters Association of Nigeria (CRAN). The epoch making event is billed to hold on Thursday, December 10, 2020 at Sheraton Hotel and Towers, along Mobolaji Bank Anthony Way, Ikeja, Lagos. In a statement by the Chairman, CRAN Lecture/Award Organising Committee, Mr. Emmanuel Edom, this year’s lecture has its theme as “MANAGING COVID-19 INDUCED SECURITY CHALLENGES. The lecture would be delivered by Mr. Dennis Amachree, a former chieftain of the Department of State Service (DSS) and currently a private security consultant, while the Chairman of the Day is Mr. Bone Chinye Efoziem, the MD of Strict Guards Security. Like in previous events, this year’s event would also feature the recognition and honouring of personalities who have distinguished themselves in various sectors of the economy. Among them are personnel of the nation’s security agencies, private security companies, banks, agencies and business organisations. The Special Guests of Honour are the Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Mohammed Dankyadi; Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; and Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, while the Guests of Honour include Chairman NDLEA, Colonel Mohammed Abdallahi (Rtd); and AIG Zone 2 Command, AIG Ahmed Iliyasu. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu is the host while the Royal Father of the Day is Oluwo of Iwo Land, Osun State, HRM Oba Abdul-Rasheed Adewale Akanbi, Telu 1, with appearances from CRAN Special Patron, Colonel Kingsley Umoh; CEO Halogen Security Limited, Mr. Wale Olaoye; GMD UBA, Mr. Kennedy Uzoka and GMD Zenith Bank Plc, Mr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu. According to Chairman, Planning Committee, over the years, CRAN through its annual lecture has provided the platform for issues of national importance to be discussed and solutions proffered, which has invariably assisted the authorities in taking some policy decisions. This year, he opined the objectives would not be different!