By John Shiklam Seven people have been killed by gunmen in Gora Gan community, Zangon-Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna state.
One person was also injured, while 13 houses and two shops were burnt by the bandits.
The incident occurred on Thursday night when the gunmen invaded the community and opened fire on residents.
It was learnt that the bandits surrounded the community and shot sporadically as residents scampered to safety.
The Kaduna state commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan confirmed the incident in a statement on Friday in Kaduna.
“The security agencies carrying out internal security operations in parts of southern Kaduna State have reported that Gora Gan community in Zangon Kataf Local Government came under attack on Thursday night”, Aruwan said.
According to him, “security agencies, comprising the military and police, reported that Gora Gan community was attacked on several fronts, including the market area and houses stretching towards the Tudun Wada area of Gora Gan.”
The statement said troops repelled the attackers, stabilized the general area and retrieved corpses of seven persons.
The statement gave the names of those killed as Peter Akaho 70, Ayuba Steven Sheyin, 67,
Jummai Ayuba,55, Ishaya Joel,35, Yakubu Saviour, 14,
Ayuba Goodluck, 11 and
Patience Ayuba, 6.
According to the commissioner, troops of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), Special Forces of the Defence Headquarters and police personnel were trailing the attackers.
He said, Governor Nasir El-Rufai has condemned the killings of innocent citizens, describing it as barbaric and inhuman.
The statement added that the governor had directed the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), to take inventory of the damages incurred and provide relief materials with immediate effect.
The statement also disclosed that the state government had received a report of sporadic shooting on the Fadan Kagoma-Kwoi Road in Jema’a Local Government Area, where a driver was shot and was responding to treatment in the hospital.
“The Governor has directed an investigation into the circumstances leading to the shootings”, Aruwan added.