BY NATHANIEL IKYUR (RIGHT OF REPLY) Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State is one leader in Nigeria now, who speaks truth to power. It is he who dares to take on any challenge with a victorious mindset. And he has been successful. It is Ortom who has awoken the consciousness of Nigerians to the menace of insecurity by the Fulani herdsmen who invaded Benue communities and wrecked havocs on families, killing in the process and taking over farmlands. At first, he was seen as a meddlesome personality. And because they ignored him, the entire country is battling with armed banditry. Almost every part of this country has its fair share of insecurity ranging from kidnappings and armed banditry etc. And no part is free from the rampaging breakdown of insecurity. It is therefore uncharitable for the Chairman, THISDAY Editorial Board, Olusegun Adeniyi, to, in his back page column of 10th December 2020, titled “Ortom and the Wife Beater” give an abysmal and bile-filled outing against Governor Ortom for resolving the dispute between Pius Angbo and his wife, Ifeyinwa Angbo, a medical doctor with the Benue State University Teaching Hospital, BSUTH Makurdi. Adeniyi was emotive in his analysis and didn’t have the patience to piece the details from both sides to arrive at his conclusions. And because he lacked the basic information which the governor had, he was too quick to condemn the compassionate, humane and commendable efforts initiated by Governor Ortom to settle a marriage dispute between the Channels Television Correspondent in the state, Angbo and his wife. Adeniyi rather took the ignoble path and descended to the abyss of bitterness and selective citing of references which he skewed to back up his lopsided piece of writing. Adeniyi exuded abusive stereotyping of the people of Benue by ignorantly and erroneously stating that “Benue is a state where women are routinely abused by their husbands”. This is indeed too grave to ignore. He went ahead to insinuate some abstract cultural value, linking Benue State to it, saying “under this prevailing cultural background and milieu, the actions of the governor of Benue State should not surprise us”. It is unfortunate that such a blanket and blind classification of Benue people is coming from someone who should be very scrupulous in his choice of words. But for whatever reasons, Adeniyi has chosen to wear the toga of a puritanical pride and condemn Benue men as if where he hails from such incidences do not occur. Baobab for Women’s Human Rights is a non-profit, non-governmental organization working on women’s human and legal rights in religious, statutory and customary laws. Incidentally, Justice Abdul Mutalib Ambali, Sharia Court of Appeal, Kwara State, Ilorin (Adeniyi’s home state) is a member of the editorial committee of this publication. According to Baobab Legal Literacy Leaflet No.1 “Violence against women cuts across all cultures and traditions, across class, e