David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka A university don, Professor A. Nonyelu, has lamented that politics has now become the easiest mean of making money in Nigeria, adding that younger people now have disregard for the age-old respect for hard work. Nonyelu, the director of Nnamdi Azikiwe University Business School, stated this at the weekend at a one-day symposium organised by Anambra State representatives of major media houses in Nigeria under the aegis of Correspondents’ Chapel of Nigeria Union of Journalists. Speaking as a guest lecturer on the topic: ‘Anambra 2021: Setting the agenda for credible leadership’, Nonyelu lamented that the people no longer aspire for leadership because of what they can offer, but the money they will make from such service. Using the state forthcoming election as a focus, the university lecturer said: “Politics in Anambra State has not changed, even with the new democratic dispensation. Those who aspire for public office know that it is the easiest route to making money. “This is because they know that anyone who is in charge can do anything and get away with it. Politics has become the only easy route to wealth, and even those who have at one time been used as thugs have come to know so, and they have begun to aspire for positions in government too. That is how deep the rot in Anambra State is.” The former state commissioner, who though scored the Anambra State governor high in security, added that the state cannot boast of being secure, as there are still lots of criminal activities in some parts of the state. He said: “If cultists can be killing themselves everyday in broad day light, then we cannot say there is security in the state. The spate of crime in the state today portends great danger, and the consequence is there.” Professor Nonyelu also called for concerted efforts by the next government of the state to look into the state of infrastructure in Akwa, the state capital, describing the city as the most backward state capital in the country. The quartet of wife of Anambra State governor, Mrs. Ebele Obiano; Rector of Federal Polytechnic, Oko, Dr. Francisca Nwafulugo; Chief Executive Officer of Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing (IVM) company, Mr. Innocent Chukwuma, and Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) in charge of Zone 13, Ukpo, Mr. Danmallam Mohammed, were given special recognition. On his own, the Chairman of the Correspondents’ Chapel, Mr. Emma Ndukuba, stated that the personalities given special recognitions have impacted the society in many ways, including philanthropy, ingenuity, security and good morals.