Renda Limited, one of Africa’s largest logistics companies has launched a platform that enables tracking, monitoring and inventory management of goods distribution, last-mile haulage and door-step delivery services to businesses and individuals. Speaking at a media chat in Lagos, the Founder, Renda Limited, Ope Onaboye, said the firm as a marketplace brings thousands of logistics providers on one platform through proper documentation as required by law. “We want businesses to be able to focus fully on the core of their business. They shouldn’t have to worry about logistics. As a business owner, I know how important logistics is to all businesses. “Having to worry about how to buy what the business needs, how to move them, where to store them, how to distribute goods to where it is needed or even getting orders to customers in good time can be very stressful and distracting, especially for SMEs. “Renda in achieving and part of its commitment to effective delivery is partnering excellence-driven logistics service providers and has on boarded hundreds of efficient logistics partners to provide reliable procurement, warehousing, and transport (goods distribution, last-mile haulage and door-step delivery) services to businesses and individuals. “At Renda, we are building Africa’s largest logistics platform that connects individuals and businesses to fast, simple and reliable logistics solutions. We are a model for logistics services. This includes procurement, warehousing, delivery services, haulage and distribution.” Speaking further on the sector that has witnessed a surge in the Nigerian economy, “what we have done in the last six months doing is to study the market, our customers and put up structures that ensure the sustainability of our networks. By first quarters of 2021 we are aiming to have over two hundred thousand of partners “Our partnership network includes logistics service providers of all sizes including the individual with one bike, car, van or truck, as well as big logistics and haulage companies and warehouse owners across Nigeria. Over the next few years, we will be expanding our reach across Africa. “We want to become the one-stop platform for end-to-end logistics solutions where our customers can procure goods, find a storage facility, distribute or transport their goods and do it all with ease and speed,” he stated.