Chuks Okocha in Abuja The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to be humble in his governance of the country as power is transient and ephemeral. He also urged the president to reflect on the lives of strong men in history like the late Libyan leader, Col. Maman Gaddafi, late General Sani Abacha and recently the outgoing President of the United States of America, Donald Trump as a pointer that power does not last for ever Secondus spoke at the weekend at the annual thanksgiving of the PDP Chapel at the National Secretariat. Reading from the Bible in Romans 5 vs 6, Secondus said that power belongs to God and He alone will have mercy on those he will have mercy. He said time has come for Nigerians to seek the face of God and beg for mercy. According to Secondus, “The president must be humble in the governance of the country. He must be humble. See what is happening to the Trump of the United States. When we look back in history, we know what happens to General Sani Abacha and Gaddafi of Libya. It points to one thing; that power belongs to God alone and He gives to whom He likes. But one thing is pointed in all these things happening, which is, power belongs to God . “Our leaders must bear in mind that the heart of the King is in the hands of God and therefore, we must be careful of what has handed over in our hands. My prayers, therefore is let God torch the hearts of our leaders as the people are suffering on a daily basis. People are been kidnapped. “Rulers are ruling with impunity and the people are suffering. The country is moving without direction. People are being killed and kidnapped and life has no meaning and we have a leader, a president who does not care. Power is temporary. It does not last for ever. We must account to our creator on what we did with power given to us,” Secondus stated. He urged Nigerians to repent and seek the face of God as what is happening in Nigeria is not ordinary. The national chairman of the PDP said God made man to manage all resources under his control, but added, “When you mismanage what God has given you to manage, you will bear the consequences and this is what is happening to Nigeria and Nigerians. “It is the duty of man to manage what God has given us as nothing is permanent in life than change. And the final judgment is with God.” He called for a strong and independent judiciary taking a example from what happened in the just concluded presidential election in the United States of America. According to Secondus, “President Trump appointed most members of the United States Supreme Court, they stood for the sovereignty of the United States and the rule of law. They gave judgment against him when it was obvious that he lost the election. That is what the Nigeria judiciary should do. They should be courageous to speak truth to power. “ Secondus said that Nigeria that was globally rated as the number one developing nations, is no longer rated as a developing nation, but the headquarters of global poverty, arguing that Nigeria and Nigerians must seek the face of God for things to return to normal. The PDP boss further described Nigeria as a meaningless nation that is in distress. Other ministers of God at the thanksgiving prayed for the nation and for 2020 to end with praises despite the challenges. Awards were given to former members of the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) like the former National Publicity Secretary Emmanuel Ibesie and the former National Auditor, who is now the governor of Benue State, Samuel Orton, among others.