By Adedayo Akinwale The National Interest Forum (NIF) has said that the inherent socio-economic problems, policy inconsistency and endemic corruption are largely responsible for the current state of insecurity in the country. Its National Chairman, Mr. Shitu Kabir, stated this while addressing a press conference on Tuesday in Abuja. He explained that the Forum was aimed at deepening understanding about the core principle of patriotism and promoting peaceful coexistence amongst Nigerians. Kabir who noted that government requires some level of public understanding and support to carry out important economic reform policies also stressed the need for citizens to conduct themselves as a people with common dreams, aspirations and destiny to move the country from where it is today to where it ought to be. Shitu stated: “We reaffirmed our hope and commitment to the unity and co-operate existence of the country as one indivisible entity despite the current security challenges and pledged our continuous cooperation and support to both the legislative and the Executive arm of the government in their bid in stamping out corruption from Nigeria”, he said. “The Forum observed that the inherent socio-economic problems, policy inconsistency and the endemic corruption have combined to deprive the Nigeria Youth the opportunity to realize their potentials and participate fully in the development process which is largely responsible for the current state of insecurity in the country. We called on all groups that have resorted to violence for any perceived injustice or grievances to give peace a chance.” Shitu noted that Nigerians were willing to live together as one entity despite recent disintegrating manifestations, which has furthered threatened the fragile unity and the basis for one nation. He, therefore, urged Boko Haram, bandits, kidnappers and other Nigerians that resorted to violence for any perceived grievances to give peace a chance in the country. On the reported second wave of #Endsars, Kabir described it as a welcome development but urged Nigeria youths to find an alternative way to show their grievances. According to him, there is also an urgent need for government to look at this grievances and its credibility and be able to address it. He said it was on that note that the National Interest Forum advise that the government and other well-meaning Nigerians should urge the youths to go back to their local government and be registered. He said that then, the government must at this point bring a deliberate policy with which they will create employment opportunity. “We believe that all local government area in Nigeria has one resources or the other. Either aquatic resources when you are talking about coastal area and agricultural, other mineral resources, we have them in abundance. There must be a deliberate policy now in order to address the EndSARS agitation. Because what brings #EndSARS is lack of employment, when millions are out of school and there is no employment. So deliberate policy should be put in place to address this”.