Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City The National Business and Technical Examination Board (NABTEB) yesterday released the result of its 2020 in-school examinations with 63.01% of its registered candidates clinched five credits with English and Mathematics. NABTEB, which was established to replace City and Guild (C&G) of London and Royal Society of Arts (RSA) of London, said 36.99% of the candidates, who sat for the exams did not pass with five credits. NABTEB’s Registrar/Chief Executive Officer, Prof. Isioma Isiugo-Abanihe formally released the 2020 exam result at the national headquarters of the board in Benin City, the Edo State capital yesterday. Giving details of the result, the registrar disclosed that 48,597 candidates had five credits and above without English and mathematics. She added that 36,2029 of the 57,474 candidates who sat for the 2020 in-school examination scored five credits and above including English Language and Mathematics. She explained that the performance “is similar to 2019 May/June NBC/NTC examination results where 32,673 candidates obtained five credits and above including English and Mathematics.” She said the effort of the board “to reduce examination malpractice is yielding results as only 453 candidates were found to be involved in malpractices. “I am sure you will agree with me that the most viable pathway to addressing youth unemployment is through comprehensive Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET). The 21st labour market requires high-level skilled workers such as those nurtured through TVET. “It is for this reason that the government has prioritized provision of various skill empowerment programmes for youths as a means of eradicating hunger and extreme poverty and fostering sustainable development in the country.” NABTEB’s helmsman advised prospective candidates to approach the board’s offices in any state or zone for guidelines to enable them register for the rescheduled 2020 examination for private candidates “I would like to tell stakeholders that the essence of sending children to technical and vocational schools is to acquire skills with which to excel at work or in higher education studies,” the board’s registrar explained. Glo subscribers with additional enquiries are encouraged to contact any of its customer contact channels or to visit https://www.gloworld.com/ng/nin for further support. The federal government has licensed 173 centers and 30 State Governments/Public Sector Institutions to conduct the enrollment of the National Identity Number (NIN) across the country.