Spectranet 4G LTE, an Internet Service Provider (ISP) has been recognised once again by the organizers of 6th edition of Nigeria Technology Awards as the 4G LTE Internet Service Provider of the year and Consumer-Friendly Internet service provider of the year respectively. The organisers of the awards, said: “Spectranet 4G LTE was adjudged winner in these two categories of award after a successful and thorough screening process.” Speaking at the presentation of the award, the Director of Event, Nigeria Technology Awards, Mr. Felix Nnuji, said: “Spectranet 4G LTE displayed leadership in innovation and customer friendliness in the design of its products and services. This was further backed up by its excellence in customer service, making it score the highest votes in both the categories. The awards are in tandem with consumers opinion. It’s a validation of experiences and value delivery based on consumers’ aspirations.” While responding to the awards, the Chief Executive Officer, Spectranet 4 G LTE, Ajay Awasthi, said the Team Spectranet worked assiduously to ensure great value to its customers through industry leading network uptime, extremely affordable data tariffs and excellent customer service. “We thank our customers for expressing their faith in Spectranet once more.These awards are validating the acceptance of the brand Spectranet as a leader and its promise of enabling customers to do more,” Awasthi said. According to him, “The entire management and staff of Spectranet are delighted with the Consumer-friendly internet service provider of the year award and we commit to work even harder to better the industry leading benchmarks in offering reliable, affordable and customer friendly service. To enable our customers to do more, we recently introduced Spectracular Do More data plans that offer time based free unlimited data browsing to all category of customers and allow them the freedom of choice based on usage habits.” “Our other innovative products like SpectraSure offering device insurance against theft and accidental damage have endeared us to our customers. The awards are dedicated to the Spectranet customers across the country for repeatedly trusting Spectranet, voting for it as an excellent brand,” Awasthi said.