Lagos governor says Covid-19 is real Segun James in Lagos and Seriki Adinoyi in Jos Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his Plateau State counterpart, Simon Lalong who have been in isolation in the past 14 days receiving treatment for COVID-19 are out of isolation, having tested negative. Sanwo-Olu addressed the press at the Lagos House, Marina, Lagos yesterday thanking God for seeing him through. The governor who said COVID-19 is real, also thanked the medical team for their care during the period and also Lagosians for their prayers and concern throughout the isolation period. The governor said he experienced mostly moderate symptoms. “It was an experience I am very glad to have put behind me. I received very dedicated and competent care from the Lagos State COVID-19 Treatment Team, and I am extremely proud of the work that they do. They are a big part of the success story of the Lagos State COVID-19 Response. “I was fortunate to have had a relatively moderate COVID-19 experience. About one in every ten persons who contracts the disease in Lagos State is not so lucky; they have to go into intensive care, and some of them do not make it out alive. For this reason, my gratitude is deep and profound. He said the best way to be lucky is not to get infected at all, “the cliché, prevention is better than cure, should be a watchword for each and every one of us at this moment in time,” he advised, saying that covid-19 is real and here with us and is not a respecter of anyone, or of social class, religious belief, or partisan affiliation. “Not only is COVID-19 here with us, this second wave we are currently seeing is proving to be more ambitious than the first wave. We are seeing infection figures that are surpassing what we saw at the peak of the first wave, and, just like then, Lagos remains the epicenter.” The governor appealed that gatherings, merriment and travelling which are all associated with the Christmas season contribute to the spread of the coronavirus. “We must now seek to minimise as much of these activities as we can, at this time and going forward.” He urged everyone to act responsibly and not to hide their status, adding that “you’re not doing only yourself a favour, you’re doing other people a favour, especially those among us who are elderly or medically vulnerable.” The governor rolled out steps that must be taken by all and sundry during this Christmas period and into the New Year. These include that, all persons feeling symptoms associated with the Coronavirus must immediately isolate themselves and contact any of the Public Testing Facilities, where a Test will be arranged free of charge. “Please do not assume that you have a case of malaria or other illness. The default position should be to test for Covid and rule this out, due to the easy transmissibility of the disease.” Also, persons who have tested positive to the Coronavirus must be open and honest with anyone they may have interacted with while infected so that effective tracing can be done and exposed persons can take appropriate measures to self-isolate and not further spread the disease. Sanwo-Olu advised the suspension or cancellation of all non-essential travel plans, whether local or international at this time. On his part, Lalong called on the citizens of the state to take the pandemic very seriously by observing all protocols for the prevention of infection and transmission of the virus. The governor, who had been in isolation since December 17, 2020, appreciated God for healing him from the virus, and also thanked the people of the state, as well as his friends and associates all over the country for praying for him. Advising that “we must not hide our status from the people we have been in contact with,” he said the isolation centres have been activated again and that the medical personnel are on the ground and that there are thousands of home care packs for those who want to start their treatment regime from home. The governor also said that the state is building oxygen camps in 10 locations for severe cases out of which six is ready and will be launched next week.