*Boosts the Aba club with two new vehicles By Emmanuel Ugwuin Umuahia Following the draw recorded by Enyimba FC of Aba in their second leg CAF Champions League preliminary match against visiting Rahimo FC of Burkina Faso at the weekend, Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, has called on the People’s Elephant to be more clinical in attack in subsequent matches. The reversed fixture played last Sunday at the Enyimba Stadium in Aba ended 1 – 1 apiece but the two-time continental champions progressed on 2 – 1 aggregate having won the first leg 1 – 0in Ouagadougou penultimate weekend. But Ikpeazu, who is Enyimba’s Number One fan, felt that the Abia State owned team could have won the match comfortably if the attackers had been more clinical in taking the chances that came their way. He, therefore, urged both the technical crew and the players to seriously improve on the area of goalscoring in order to progress further in the competition and possibly rule the African continent for the third time. Governor Ikpeazu specifically tasked the players to show extra commitment and sense of accuracy by shooting without missing as they face future challenges in the current edition of the CAF Champions League. To motivate the club which commands passionate support in Abia and beyond, Ikpeazu presented two brand new vehicles to Enyimba FC after the match in appreciation of their qualification for the next round of the CAF elite club competition. The vehicles are one brand new Coaster bus for the Club and one SUV for the Chairman of the Club, Chief Felix Anyansi-Agwu. The governor said that the Coaster bus would assist Enyimba in their local travels while the SUV is the official vehicle of the club Chairman. In appreciation of the Gov Ikpeazu’s gesture, Anyansi-Agwu expressed pleasant surprise and profusely thanked him and promised that the Club would make effective use of the vehicles. He assured the governor and the people of Abia State that the club will continue to do the state and the country proud by winning laurels. Nigeria’s other representatives in the CAF Champions League, Plateau United crashed out on Sunday after battling to a 0-0 draw against Simba SC of Tanzania in their preliminary round second leg tie away at the Mkapa Stadium. Abdu Maikaba’s side lost 1-0 in the first leg at the New Jos International