By David-Chyddy Eleke The Chairman of Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC), Prince Isaac Onuka, has resigned from the position, following the de-registration of some political parties by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Onuka, a former state chairman of the Peoples Democratic Congress (PDM), from where he became the chairman of IPAC in the state, recently moved to the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) following the de-registration of the former. Speaking at a press conference to announce his resignation, Onuka said the de-registration of 74 registered political parties in the country destabilized the country’s political party administration, as chairmen of the affected parties lost control of their areas. Onuka’s defection to a new political party was after the 23 affected political parties went to court and were eventually reinstated by the Court of Appeal. He said: “I decided to resign from my position as state chairman of IPAC because I joined another political party following the de-registration of my former party by INEC. “The confusion caused by that exercise by INEC disrupted political equation in the country. “The law says that once anybody holding an office in IPAC cross carpets to another political party, he ceases to be an officer of IPAC. That was why I resigned my position as Anambra State chairman of IPAC because I moved to another political party when my party was de-registered. “The de-registration by INEC also caused division in IPAC at the national level, with Chief Okey Nwosu of ADC leading one group, while Okey Ezenwa of AAC led some political party chairmen to lay claim to the leadership of IPAC. “Both groups have formed caretaker committees and unfortunately many state chairmen of political parties made themselves willing tools in the destabilization of IPAC. We should not allow our personal interests to destroy the legacy that has existed over the years. “There is need for IPAC members to work together in the interest of the country’s democracy. We knew that INEC acted in disobedience to the law, but that should not be enough reason to add to the confusion. “In my wisdom, I consulted my deputy and he constituted a new executive committee, which is why I have stepped down. What we have done in Anambra State is in line with the directive of IPAC at the national level led by Chief Okey Nwosu and the new leadership is working with the 41 recognized political parties.” The Anambra State secretary of IPAC, Mr. Kenneth Okafor, has been announced as the new chairman of the group in the state.