Kayode Fasua in Abeokuta Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, on yesterday paid glowing tributes to the eldest daughter of political sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, the late Mrs. Omotola Olubunmi Oyediran, describing her as a paragon of virtues. Abiodun said the deceased was a diligent and hard-working woman who fought for the right of women and people unjustly accused and put behind bars. Prince Dapo Abiodun testified to Mrs Oyediran’s goodness at an outing service held in honour of the late Oyediran at Our Saviours Anglican Church, Ikenne, Ogun State. The governor said that the deceased was a good Christian, a servant of God who served in the vineyard of the Lord diligently, in her lifetime. “Mama was a civil rights activist. She fought for the rights of women. She also fought for the rights of inmates that were unjustly put away. “She raised money; she defended them, ensured that they got justice and got them freed,” he said. Consoling the deceased’s widower, Prof Olukayode Oyediran, Governor Abiodun noted that to have enjoyed wedlock for over 57 years meant she was a virtuous woman and the good relationship was worthy of accolades. “She was a well brought up and virtuous woman who was a good mother and a loving wife to her husband of 57 years. “Mama was focused. She was diligent and hardworking. She was a good Christian – a servant of God – who served God diligently,” he said. In his message titled, “Life is a race, run it well”, Bishop of Remo Diocese and Archbishop of Lagos Ecclesiastical Province, Most Rev’d Olusina Fape, who took his sermon scripture from the book of Hebrews, Chapter 12, verses 1 and 2, observed that life was a race that begins at the moment of birth. Fape said that the race of life could either be the race of getting married early, getting an educational qualification, building a house and getting wealthy. He, however, noted that the race must be run according to the rules. He said there could be hindrances like fornication, malice, cheating and membership of secret societies. These obstacles, he said, could derail an earthly race and make it hard to gain a place in heaven. Fape said that the deceased, while on earth, was a decent woman; one who loved her husband and her children and stood by her husband always.