· Warns against over-speeding along Lagos-Ibadan expressway Becky Uba-Umenyili in Lagos As the country continues to record a surge in infection rate the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has warned all commercial transport operators, commuters and private car owners against flouting COVID-19 protocols. FRSC lamented the violence that erupted due to EndSARS protest, which inflicted damage on its data-capturing infrastructure nationwide. FRSC’s Zonal Commanding Officer, Lagos and Ogun, Mr. Peter Kibo gave the warning at a session with THISDAY yesterday, noting that the corps would not condone flagrant violation of the COVID-19 protocols among transport operators. Kibo, an Assistant Corps Marshal, urged the operatives of the corps to enforce strict compliance with the COVID-19 protocols among commuters, commercial transport operators and private owners. He specifically urged transport operators to obey all traffic regulations and observe all COVID-19 protocols with a warning that failing to observe rules and regulation might attract sanctions. The zonal commander, therefore pleaded with road users to “drive safe and stay safe” during the holidays in accordance with the theme of the 2020 ember-month campaign. He explained that the safety guides for the 2020 ember-month campaign focused on drivers’ failure to use speed limit devices, overloading, drivers’ licence violation, lane indiscipline and dangerous overtaking as well as driving with expired/worn-out tyres or without spare tyres.” Kibo, the immediate past Assistant Corps Marshal in Abuja, urged the media to support the corps to enhance public awareness and education to ensure safety on roads nationwide. On the impact of the youth agitation against police brutality, Kibo said most of FRSC’s operational vehicles “have been burnt and severely vandalised as well as drivers’ licence production centres during the EndSARS protest and its aftermath. “We have decided that commands with more patrol vehicles should release some to affected areas. Drivers license capturing is still ongoing with the use of unaffected equipment available in some locations.” The zonal commander noted that in view of FRSC’s strategic objectives to minimise the risk of death this year, prompt rescue services and effective patrol operations had been planned. Kibo, a fellow of the National Defence College, urged all the operatives of the FRSC to discharge their mandate in line with laws that set up the corps and improve on their skill for better service. In a statement by its Public Education Officer, Lagos Sector Command, Mrs. Olabisi Sonusi, FRSC urged motorists to adhere strictly to speed limits of the various categories of vehicles plying the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The statement said the Sector Commander, Olusegun Ogungbemide made the appeal after monitoring movement along the Lagos-Ibadan expressway up to Ibadan tollgate. He said the effort earlier made by the corps by pleading with the contractors handling the rehabilitation project to remove all the barricade, and the eventual removal of such as resulted in the free flow of traffic along the corridor. He, therefore, charged all motorists travelling along the corridor to reduce their speed so as to avoid crashes that can lead to high fatality or death. He, also, urged motorists to avoid overloading, use of the phone while driving and remember to observe all COVID-19 guidelines. The sector commander assured motorists of adequate deployment of personnel along the corridor while wishing all travellers safe trip to their destinations.