Chinedu Eze As airfares continue to skyrocket and most airlines fully booked, Nigeria’s leading carrier, Air Peace, has assured customers that it has made adequate preparations to effectively service all its routes during the Christmas season, especially South-east and South-south destinations. The airline said some of its aircraft taken abroad for maintenance have started returning and would be deployed to those destinations currently underserved to ensure that it meet the travel demand of its customers. So it promised passengers who are yet to get flights for their trips during the Christmas season that the airline has the capacity to airlift them to their respective destinations. The airline therefore urged travellers not to worry, as it is yet to roll out its Christmas schedule, which would ensure that every route is effectively serviced. The assurance was contained in a statement signed by the airline’s Chief Operating Officer, Mrs. Toyin Olajide, who said that more aircraft would be deployed to all destinations with high passenger demand. “It has come to our notice that a lot of South-south and South-east bound passengers are frustrated at the lack of available airline seats for their trips this Yuletide season and have become apprehensive as a result. We wish to assure them that Air Peace shall provide enough flights to accommodate all who wish to travel. We are yet to roll out our Christmas schedule as our planes have started arriving the country from maintenance checks abroad. “We shall be rolling out multiple flight schedules for the season from the 16th of December for the following destinations: Enugu, Owerri, Asaba, Uyo, Calabar, Port Harcourt and Benin. We assure our teeming Passengers of top-notch service and safe trips,” Mrs. Olajide said. One of the factors driving up airfares is paucity of operating aircraft, which is currently inadequate to meet travel demand of Nigerians on domestic destinations, but with more aircraft coming from Air Peace, observers hope that there would be a check in the rising prices of flight tickets. Many airlines have earlier announced that they cannot offer more seats to their Eastern and South-south destinations because their flights have been fully booked on those routes.