By Raheem Akingbolu The Outdoor Advertising Association of Nigeria (OAAN) has hosted the maiden edition of “Night of the Legends” an event put together in honour of exemplary icons in the outdoor advertising industry. At the event which was held in Lagos, three former presidents of the association, Chief Foluso Babu Akinbobola, Chief JAS Kolawole Oyekan and Pa Simeon Olaghere were honoured.
The event lived up to its billing as it attracted dignitaries from the advertising industry and beyond. Among the dignitaries at the occasion was the doyen of advertising and chairman of Troyka Holdings, Biodun Shobanjo; Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON) Registrar, Lekan Fadolapo; Lagos State Signage and Advertisement Agency (LASAA), Managing Director, Prince Adedamola Docemo; Outdoor Advertising Association of Nigeria (OAAN) President, Emmanuel Ajufo; Media Independent Practitioners of Nigeria (MIPAN) President, Femi Adelusi and many others. In his welcome address, OAAN President Emmanuel Ajufo eulogised the past leaders of the outdoor advertising industry, noting that their selfless service and sacrifice have put the industry in good stead. “Without the selfless service of our past leaders, we will not be where we are today. In recognition of this, we are honouring these exemplary men of honour who have served the association in the past. The Nite of the Legends will now form part of our bi-annual functions as an association. We hope this recognition will further encourage our good people to offer their time and resources to the growth of the association.” The Guest Speaker, Babajide Ogunsanwo, in his robust contribution noted that the present economic exigencies require outdoor advertising to move beyond the traditional role of informing the people. He stated that a lot of empathy should be integrated in delivering offerings to the people especially at this critical period of Covid-19 pandemic. Akinbobola got the main award while the duo of Oyekan and Olaghere got posthumous awards for their contributions to the outdoor advertising industry in Nigeria. The epoch-making event of the 30-year old association was seen by industry players and watchers as a landmark achievement by the Emmanuel Ajufo led association. It was the first time a special event was hosted to specifically honour past heroes of the association. Recall that in the past, the association had always honoured its patrons through the annual poster awards