Chuks Okocha in Abuja National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Uche Secondus, has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to resign after admitting the failure of his administration in the face of growing insecurity. Secondus was reacting to the president’s admittance that a lot needed to be done to improve security and that security chiefs were not measuring up to expectation. In a statement by his media aide, Ike Abonye, Secondus stated that since the buck stopped on the table of the Commander-in-Chief, Buhari had chosen to keep the non-performing security chiefs, despite strong appeals to change them. The PDP chairman said rather than what he called belated lamentations, the president should do the honourable thing by resigning and giving way for fresh ideas and new vitality. Secondus recalled Buhari’s advice while in opposition in 2013 to then President Goodluck Jonathan, saying “Jonathan should vacate and give way to competent hand to govern the country.” The PDP chairman stated, “I find it extremely unacceptable that after the president disregarded all wise counsel to rejig the nation’s security architecture for effectiveness, he is now turning round to admit their failure and blame operatives, whom he kept even in their apparent inefficiency.” Buhari Mourns Renowned Professor of History, Oloruntimehin President Muhammadu Buhari has extended heartfelt condolences to the Oloruntimehin family on the passing of the former president of the Nigerian Academy of Letters (NAL) and Historical Society of Nigeria (HSN), Professor Benjamin Olatunji Oloruntimehin. “The President commiserated with Fellows and members of NAL and HSN on the demise of the very distinguished scholar, who at various times served as a Dean, Faculty of Arts, University of Ife, Ile Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University) and the pioneer Dean, Faculty of Humanities, and Chairman Committee of Deans, Ajayi Crowther University, Oyo State.
“As a great historian and widely published author, President Buhari avers that the prolific academic will be fondly remembered for the insights and clarity in his works, helping readers and students alike to understand the importance of history in national development, and how individuals and societies have evolved. “The President notes that this administration’s decision to reintroduce history as an independent subject at the basic education level in the country (Years 1-9) will ensure that the works of scholars like Prof. Oloruntimehin, and those who drank from his fountain of knowledge, are preserved, inspiring future leaders for years to come.
“The President prays for the peaceful repose of the soul of the departed and comfort for all who mourn,” the statement said.