Following the two-day Homecoming Tour in Umuahia, Abia State, Legend Extra Stout, and brand ambassador, Erica Nlewedim paid a courtesy visit to the Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu at the State Government House. This comes barely a month after Erica was officially announced as the new face of Legend and Star Radler during the unveiling of the new look for both brands. With the homecoming tour, Erica reconnected with her roots as she basked in the splendour of the Igbo culture while the brand deepened its connection and engagement with consumers in the eastern region. During her stint on the reality show, the brand ambassador had revealed that she was yet to visit her hometown. The Nigerian Breweries team, led by the company’s Sales Director, Uche Unigwe, expressed gratitude for the continued support of the Abia state government towards Nigerian Breweries’ business operations in the state, stating that one of the key messages of the brand’s relaunch is authenticity. “This is a virtue that resonates well with the people of Abia state as they are known for their creative ingenuity. This runs true with the commercialization of ‘Made in Aba’ products in Nigeria and overseas. Your administration has also made substantial investments in championing the promotion of said ingenuity through entrepreneurship. These amongst several other reasons are what endeared us to bring the Homecoming tour to Abia state.” Ikpeazu indicated the state’s interest in partnering with the brand. “One of which is your deep sense of industry, resilience, innovation, and handwork. These are some of the virtues that lay in our DNA here in Abia state. I want to commit on behalf of myself and the government that we will do everything to make sure you remain at the top in the beverage industry in Nigeria”. Sharing her excitement about the tour so far, Erica said “Thanks to my Legend Extra Stout family for bringing me home, with the love and warmth I received here, I wish I had visited Abia much earlier. Meeting the governor and the people of Abia state has been most exciting. Their resilience, hard work, and adventurous nature were totally inspiring”. After the courtesy visit, Erica and the brand team embarked on a city tour around the streets of Umuahia, trailed and hailed by fans and passers-by. The tour which commenced on Wednesday, December 16, finally came to an end with a visit to some of the brand’s distributors and the Flowzone party at De Latinos Bar where fans got the opportunity to explore, express, and celebrate their creativity and authenticity while enjoying the reformulated taste of Legend.