By Laleye Dipo The Niger State Government has supported the plan by the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Caretaker/Convention Committee to carryout registration of members, insisting that the policy will widen the political power base of the party ahead of the 2023 general election. The state government also maintained that fresh party registration would bring into the net of the party “many supporters of our party who have been hanging out there.” The Mai Mala Buni-led committee has already fixed the exercise for early January 2021. The Special Adviser on Political Matters to the state Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, Alhaji Nma Kolo, who made the government position known in a statement made available to journalists in Minna yesterday, however, challenged the party leaderships at all levels to ensure they “carryout the job meticulously and to the satisfaction of all stakeholders by also ensuring the registration of all supporters of our party. “Nobody should be indirectly or directly denied registration into the party.” According to him, “Registration of members by any party is a very important task because it will allow the party to know it’s strength even before any election. “On our part as a government, we will give the needed moral and physical supports to the leaderships of our party at all levels to enable them succeed in this very important assignment.” On insecurity, Kolo said the state government was working assiduously with the federal government to bring an end to the frequent banditry in some parts of the state. “The state government is very concerned about the high level of insecurity in parts of the state, especially in the Niger East senatorial zone. We are working very hard to restore law and order as well as to make our people live peacefully in the various communities they find themselves,” the governor’s aide stated. He however charged “our Christian brothers and sisters” to use the celebration of Christmas to pray for peace not only in the state but the country at large.