Seriki Adinoyi in Jos The burial arrangement for the late former Chief of Defence Staff, Lt. Gen. Domkat Bali has stirred serious controversy amongst his kinsmen as Ngwang Ishi O’Tarok (NIO), a socio-economic and cultural development organization of Tarok Nation has warned Tarok elders to desist from the plans to bury the General in Abuja against the culture of the land. In a statement signed by the President and Secretary of the group, Chief David Dashe and Nangor Ndam respectively, the group reminded the Tarok elders that Bali, as at the time of his death was still the Ponzhi Tarok and President Langtang Joint Traditional Council as affirmed by the Court of Appeal Jos division on the 11th November 2020. Dashe said, “We learnt that some elders have relocated to Bali’s Abuja residence and issued funeral arrangements programme for his burial without consultation with the Langtang Joint Traditional Council which is the proper thing to do considering that the deceased was the Ponzhi Tarok and president Langtang Joint Traditional Council and a member of Plateau State Joint Traditional Council for Chiefs and Emirs.
“These arrangements which they are making for him not to be buried as a Royal Majesty are in total disagreement by the Langtang Joint Traditional Council, the NIO and the Tarok Nation. “Based on the foregoing, the NIO on behalf of the Tarok Nation warned the Tarok elders from hijacking the funeral arrangements of the Late Ponzhi Tarok and President Langtang Joint Traditional Council HRM Domkat Bali. “Domkat Bali (HRM) died as a “First Class Chief” in office and the arrangements for his burial must be handled by the Langtang Joint Traditional Council, his immediate family and the government of Plateau State.” He observed that the Tarok has an age-long tradition for burial rite that must be maintained and sustained for the youths and also generation yet unborn to learn from. While appreciating President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Simon Lalong and the Gbong Gwom Jos Jacob Gyang Buba for mourning the General Bali, Dashe advised them and the public to disregard the funeral arrangements programme released by a section of Tarok elders and wait for the one to be released by Langtang Joint Traditional Council.