The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has said his administration would sustain policies on economic inclusiveness and continue far-reaching reforms that would engender sustainable development so as to provide necessary amenities to lift residents out of poverty. The governor said this in commemoration of the International Human Solidarity Day celebrated every year by the United Nations and its sister agencies.
According to the governor, “As we mark the International Human Solidarity Day, it is imperative to point out that deliberate reforms have been undertaken to improve the livelihoods of Edo people across the wide spectrum of the society. “In essence, we have ensured that our socio-economic policies are geared towards providing opportunities for our people to thrive and live fulfilling lives. These have been done by improving public infrastructure, reforming the education system, revamping the healthcare system and providing economic stimulus to drive growth in agriculture, minerals and the service sector.” The governor said the state government is partnering with development institutions to engender sustainable development through investment in education, healthcare, infrastructure and environmental sustainability.
“As we sustain reforms in the second term of my administration, we have prioritized strengthening of the civil and public service to better serve the people; commenced the process of recruiting professionals to man key institutions and introduced a new way of thinking in the services to place the people at the centre of our interventions.” “These, we believe, will afford Edo people a better deal, as we are confident that in the new year, with the introduction of the state health insurance scheme, Edo people will be able to access quality healthcare, even as they already enjoy one of the most improved public primary education in the country delivered under the Edo Basic Education Sector Transformation (EdoBEST) programme,” he added. According to the UN, “the UN General Assembly is convinced that the promotion of the culture of solidarity and the spirit of sharing is important for combating poverty. Through initiatives such as the establishment of the World Solidarity Fund to eradicate poverty and the proclamation of International Human Solidarity Day, the concept of solidarity was promoted as crucial in the fight against poverty and in the involvement of all relevant stakeholders.”