Assures customers of more secured rides Bolt, on-demand transportation platform in Africa has up-scaled security and safety features on the platform to improve the safety and well-being of passengers, riders and drivers during a Bolt trip. The update has become necessary due to the increasing case of safety report received in the past months. Amongst other things, the App will now have a real-time biometric verification solution to serve as an additional layer of technology that will further intensify the driver verification process. The solution which is the first of its kind and in partnership with YouVerify, will cross-match all information and documents provided by drivers against various government databases including the Bank Verification Number (BVN), National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) and driver’s license databases. Along with this, will be a state-wide driver re-training and re-education programme conducted regularly to ensure that drivers are updated on the principles of customer service and equipped with knowledge of routes and actions to take in cases of emergencies. The driver’s ratings will also be reviewed to 4.6 to ensure that only the most recommended drivers are available on the App and the Customer Support Team will be expanded to ensure that enquiries are attended to quickly and more effectively. Speaking about the update, the Country Manager, Femi Akin-Laguda described the effort as a continuation of the Bolt’s dedication to improved service hence the direction the company is taking ahead of the new year. ‘2020 has been quite an exciting year for us as a company and we are very excited about the prospects of the coming year. We have observed, listened attentively and even engaged a lot of our customers to understand how we can better deliver a great service and I am happy to say we are on our way to being in alignment with the expectations of our customers needs. In the coming weeks, we are updating the App with more security features and launching a lot of initiatives to help riders and drivers alike have reliable, affordable and very importantly,safe rides”. he said. Since it began operations in November 2016, Bolt has continued to pride itself as a customer and safety centric service platform, providing affordable millions of Nigerians every day and helping them commute without worries.