Noah’s Ark Communications said it emerged the ‘Agency of the Year’ at the 2020 Lagos Advertising & Ideas Festival (LAIF) Awards held in Lagos, recently.
To emerge victorious, the agency stated that carted home a total of 28 laurels including one Grand Prix; 8 Gold, 10 Silver & 9 Bronze medals. According to a statement, the agency won the awards for the creative works for Airtel, PayAttitude, Society For Family Health (SFH) and the Agency’s Democracy Press Ad. In the nominations shortlist for the award released by the organisers, Noah’s Ark Communications recorded a total of 52 creative works out of the total 205 representing about 25 per cent of the total shortlisted creative works for the 2020 edition of the awards.
LAIF awards is the annual event organised by the Advertising Agencies Association of Nigeria (AAAN) aimed at promoting excellence in advertising and marketing communications. The 2020 edition of LAIF Awards themed ‘Grind and Shine’ was held virtually in compliance with the COVID-19 pandemic regulations. Speaking on the achievements, the Managing Director/ Chief Creative Officer, Noah’s Ark Communications Limited, Mr. Lanre Adisa, attributed the consistent winning streak of the agency to its resilience and commitment to creative excellence in line with the agency’s mantra that states: “we believe in the supremacy of the ideas; we go wherever the idea takes us.” Adisa applauded the doggedness of the Noah’s Ark team for always going the extra mile and pushing the limit of creativity to deliver solutions that meet the business needs of the clients using a mix of deep consumer insights, creativity and technical innovation. He also commended the unflinching support and collaborative efforts of the clients to create great works. “The year 2020 has been a very challenging one for businesses and people all over the world especially with the COVID-19 pandemic. We have been working remotely since April and to end this year as the Agency of the Year with a Grand Prix is absolutely marvellous.” Adisa said. Also speaking on the exploits of the Agency at the 2020 LAIF, the Executive Creative Director, Noah’s Ark Communications Limited, Mr. Abolaji Alausa, stated that the agency has over the years cemented its place as the leading creative advertising powerhouse having emerged the Agency of the Year 3 times within the last 5 years and winning 3 out of the 5 Grand Prix ever awarded by LAIF Awards.