By Raheem Akingbolu Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited and its bottling partner Nigerian Bottling Company Limited (NBC) has pledged its support to GiveFood.ng, an emergency food relief platform, through a donation of N19 million to feed vulnerable families in its host communities. Following Coca-Cola’s endorsement of the platform in May 2020, the platform has since provided over 200,000 meals to Nigerians. It is expected that with this donation, the platform’s capacity will be bolstered to provide considerable aid to families in vulnerable communities across Nigeria. The GiveFood initiative comprises a coalition of partners focused on reaching the most vulnerable people with a target of providing over one million meals to the underserved in communities. The coalition is made up of leading federal and state government institutions; Nigeria’s largest food companies, including Coca-Cola; a vast network of supermarket outlets; and leading media, finance, and technology firms; who are all committed to this cause. Announcing Coca-Cola’s partnership with GiveFood.ng, Public Affairs, Communications & Sustainability Manager, Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited, Nwamaka Onyemelukwe, explained that the organisation will be providing monetary support to the initiative, leveraging the vast distribution network built by Give food.ng to ensure this food relief reaches those in need. “The current economic climate presents a level of hardship for many Nigerians who struggle to make a living. To help address this growing concern, Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited along with its bottling partner Nigerian Bottling Company Limited (NBC) has pledged its support to the GiveFood.ng initiative. Through this donation, we believe the platform will be able to feed over a million Nigerians impacted by the pandemic, while leveraging our robust distribution network” Speaking on this collaboration, Mr. Kola Masha, Managing Director of Babban Gona, the Lead Coalition Partner for GiveFood.ng explained, “There is an urgent need to help our neighbors in dire need at this time. The economic downturn caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has brought to the fore the strife of individuals, families, and communities across the nation. “It is an honor to partner with Coca-Cola, an organisation with objectives that align closely with ours, to leverage our proven distribution and logistics technology expertise to make a positive lasting impact to a large population who are in desperate need of our help.” Coca-Cola remains committed to doing business the right way and sustainably; this commitment is mirrored across all its operations in its host communities, with key focus on its four sustainability pillars – women and youth, water, waste, and wellbeing. Over the years, the company has invested in these areas, driving major impact and development for beneficiaries and the larger community.