Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has reassured that this government will continue to prioritise investment in critical sectors of the state including education, agriculture and infrastructure, among others, to engender sustainable development in the state. The governor, in a virtual Town Hall meeting, noted that though the government has recorded huge success in various sectors of the state, his administration is committed to sustaining gains in the education and social sectors and providing the needed stimulus to drive food security.
Obaseki said his government has earmarked N20.8 billion for the education sector in 2021 to sustain the gains recorded by the administration in the first term. According to the governor, the agricultural sector also recorded huge improvement with the incursion of new investors to the state, in furtherance of its vision to make agriculture the mainstay of the state’s economy. He noted that with the immense role agriculture plays in stimulating the economy and ensuring food security, his government will continue with a number of agriculture support programmes targeted at rural and suburban areas. “We would also continue the development of agricultural colleges infrastructure to develop a robust manpower to sustain the reforms being undertaken in the sector,” he added. Obaseki stated: “For us as a government, it is about the next generation, which is why we are investing so much in education. The greatest gift you can give to any child is quality education and we are investing in the education system. It’s about their health, education and protection. “For agriculture, we have done a lot in the sector; we have several Edo people in the Diaspora as well as other local and international investors who are partnering with the state government on agriculture, including oil palm, rice and cassava cultivation.” “We were able to produce Edo rice for consumption during the festive season; we would have done more but for the flooding. We will support more farmers to produce more in the next farming season,” he assured.