By Chuks Okocha A former Minister of Education, Dr. Obiageli Ezekwesili, has called for full disclosure on the state of mental and physical health of President Muhammadu Buhari, following the killing of about 67 farmers/fishermen on November 28 at Zabarmari community in Borno State and the failure of his administration to provide credible response to the spate of massacres in the country. Ezekwesili said the frequency with which Nigerians are being killed without any form of prevention by the security establishment that the President supervises as Commander-in-Chief, nor any prosecution and judicial consequences against perpetrators of heinous murders, raised questions on whether he is still able to discharge the powers and duties of his office. She said that Buhari’s failure to decisively tackle the persistemt killings of Nigerians had further emboldened pre-judicial and terrorist activities within the Nigerian territory. Ezekwesili, who was a former World Bank Vice President, in a statement issued yesterday by her Publicist and Spokesperson, Mr. Ozioma Ubabukoh, said that citizens should collectively demand for a credible independent medical panel to investigate and disclose the state of the President’s physical and mental health to Nigerians in order to determine his fitness to continue in office. She said: “I think that at this stage and depth of fragility of the Nigeria state, privacy has to yield ground to our right-to-know as citizens, the state of health of President Muhammadu Buhari. “The state of affairs in the country is dangerous enough for citizens while the President appears incapable of providing effective leadership necessary to secure and stabilise the country and protect lives. “We really must assess the physical or mental capability of the President to carry on the duties of his office.” She averred that the conditions of Nigeria “have become too grave for us all to sit still and watch a train wreck in the making. “Citizens can collectively push for an independent panel to help us make the critical medical determination of the state of mind and body of our President. “As an extremely concerned citizen, I hereby demand for a #MedicalPanelOnBuhari since we obviously cannot trust the State House physician to provide us accurate information. It is a reasonable demand now for citizens to have full disclosure on the state of health of Buhari and I hope that more people from all regions of the country will speak up.” In October 12 and 25, Boko Haram militants had slaughtered 22 farmers working on their irrigation fields near Maiduguri in two separate attacks. Also, the latest beheading of about 110(according to figures from United Nations) farmers/fishermen on November 28 occurred barely 48 hours after the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Mohammed Sa’ad Abubakar III, raised the alarm that the North had been taken over by bandits who kill and maim at will.