* Sanwo-Olu responding to treatment, says commissioner Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Mr. Boss Mustapha, has admitted that some members of his household have tested positive for the virus. This is as the Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, yesterday said Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is responding well to home-based care and treatment for COVID-19. Mustapha, who is the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), raised the alarm yesterday in a statement he issued to the public. He said although the persons who contracted the virus were asymptomatic, they had been isolated and were receiving care in one of the government treatment centres. Mustapha added that although he and his wife tested negative for the virus, he would remain in self-isolation and work from home according to the protocols by the health authorities. “I would like to remind all Nigerians that COVID-19 is real. As the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) announced last week, we are recording an increase in cases across several states. “Please stay safe and protect yourself. Adhere to all public health and safety measures so that we do not lose the gains we have made in the fight against COVID-19. As a family, we covet your prayers,” Mustapha said. He also urged the public to take responsibility and to protect the country. Meanwhile, the Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, has said Governor Sanwo-Olu is responding well to home-based care and treatment for COVID-19. “Governor of Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, is responding well to COVID-19 home-based care and treatment. He is in high spirit and very appreciative of all your prayers and well wishes. “I will be keeping the public informed regularly of Mr Governor’s recovery and wellbeing,” Abayomi stated in a two-part-tweet update last night. The commissioner had announced last night that the governor tested positive for coronavirus and has been in isolation since on Friday following contact with persons infected with the virus. Lagos is a major entry point in Nigeria with over 60% of incoming passenger traffic going through the Murtala Muhammed International Airport in the state. The state has also recorded over 24,000 infections including more than 200 associated deaths. A number of governors in the country had also contracted the virus since the pandemic was imported into Nigeria. Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi; Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu; Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde; Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed; Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, amongst others, had tested recovered from the virus. Also, the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, who had earlier recovered from the virus, has also gone into isolation again following reported cases of positive COVID-19 cases recorded by persons close to him.