Olaoluwakitan Babatunde The Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development, Dr. Uche Ogah, IG Mohammed Adamu, Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps, Dr. Boboye Olayemi Oyeyemi, and Assistant Inspector General of Police (rtd), Mr. Tunde Ogunsakin were top on the list of winners at this year’s integrity award. The Annual Integrity Lecture and Award, organised by Nigerian Association of Christian Journalists (NACJ) at Abuja Sheraton Hotel, recently, was characterised with pomp and pageantry. The event with the theme: Integrity is Everything, began with the keynote address titled, “Integrity, Key Factor to Building a Virile Nation”, which was delivered by retired Assistant Inspector General of Police, Barr Tunde Ogunsakin, who also presided as the Chairman of the occasion. One of the well-appraised recipients was Dr. Uche Ogah, Minister of State for Mines And Steel Development, celebrated as “The Most Outstanding Integrity Minister of The Year”. Dr. Ogah emerged as the most deserving candidate for the award after a keen contest of seven other ministers that were nominated for the same category. By this award, Ogah is automatically an esteemed Ambassador NACJ, as well as symbol of integrity amongst Nigeria’s leaders at the corridors of power. Other prominent leaders who were equally honoured for their high sense of integrity include Governor Fayemi who was decorated with the, “Most Outstanding Democratic Integrity Governor of The Year”, for his reverence for democratic principles. The amazing “Integrity Personality of The Year”, is no other than the IGP Adamu, for his level-headedness with particular reference to his swift response to the scraping of SARS when it was agitated for by Nigerian youths. Also, the prestigious Award of the, Most Outstanding Public Servant of The Year, was bestowed on Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, the Corps Marshal, for his exemplary display of result-oriented leadership with high sense of integrity. Others are Representative Chisom as the “Young Lawmaker of The Year,” Hon Frank Ilaboya as the “Most Outstanding Local Government Chairman of The Year,”; Chief Everest Okpara, as the “Health Care Personality of The Year”, Hon Ginger Onwusibe who won the “Most Outstanding Integrity Lawmaker of The Year”. NACJ Integrity Award was instituted in 2013 to combat corruption by celebrating leaders who have demonstrated the spirit of integrity in their capacities as leaders. NACJ Secretary, Charles Okhai said: “We believe that performance in leadership positions springs from self-discipline of demanding excellence from oneself, and more importantly, only people of integrity demand excellence of themselves. “NACJ is deeply committed to promoting the spirit of integrity in our society because we strongly believe that the development of any nation is intrinsically, or directly connected to the level of integrity of her leaders. Therefore, the driving force behind our Annual Integrity Lecture and Award is to evolve dependable Leadership that is mentally integrity conscious.”