By James Sowole The Ondo State Security Network, Amotekun, has arrested two suspected cattle rustlers and a herdman that attacked officials of the security corps. Equally, men of the security agency, have seized 16 cows that destroyed farmers crops at Osi Community in Akure North Local Government area of the state while unauthorised gun and other weapons were recovered. The Commander of the Amotekun in Ondo State, Chief Adetunji Adeleye, disclosed the feat of the security agency, during a chat with journalists, at the agency’s headquarters in Akure, the state capital. Adeleye, disclosed that over 100 suspects, had been arrested by men of the security agency in the state since it started operations. Explaining how the 16 cows were seized, the commander said the Amotekun Corps reacted to a distress call from farmers. He said: Some farmers from Osi Community ran to the office complaining that their farms had been destroyed by herds. “We sent our men there to assess the situation assessed and found out that the herds were actually on the farm and we invited the herdsmen. “But unfortunately on getting there, they attacked our men with knives and other dangerous types of weapons. We were able to arrest one of the herders named Abdulkadir Mohammed. Narrating how the cattle rustlers were arrested, the commander said the men, were apprehended, due to investigation because the men bolted away on sighting the Amotekun men on invitation of a Fulani
herder. Adeleye said the Amotekun had recovered a NISSAN Serena Bus marked LAGOS FJ 423 KRD, brought by the suspected rutlers to steal cows belonging to Alhaji Ilyasu He said: “Alhaji Ilyasu a Fulani man came to us that some people came with a Serena Bus to steal their cattle. They came to us and we sent our men out. We were able to recover the vehicle they wanted to used in stealing the cows, we also recovered the cows. “We were able to trace some of the rustlers that ran away to somewhere in Ogun State. We have apprehended one Sudauna Gombe and one Ogunyale Sola, who was the driver of the abandoned Serena Bus “We have handed them over to the Agro Department of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) for detailed investigation. “The cattle rustling case occured near NIROWI forest along Ore-Lagos Road before step down in Omotosho. “We recovered two cows, which we have returned to the Fulani man that owns them, and we brought the vehicle to our office here because the rustlers ran away and abandoned the vehicle. But we were able to arrest those involved and they had confessed that they had bee. In the trade for some time Adeleye also said that the Amotekun Corps, have arrested one Lawal Abubakar along Ago Panu Forest near Owo on the way to Ose while in possession of a gun without a licence. He said the suspect would be handed over to the police for further investigation and possible prosecution. The commander said the security agency, has held series of meetings with the Myetti Allah leaders from Ondo, Ekiti and Osun States to educate them that Amotekun is for them all. He appealed to the Myetti Allah leaders to appeal to their members that they should desist from destroying farmlands of residents where they are. Adeleye said if the herders don’t stop their cows from destroying farms, they are causing a bigger problem of famine tomorrow. “I want to appeal to herders to do their business without destroying another person’s means of.livelihood. “Yes as a Nigerian, they have the right to do their business anywhere but they do not have the right to destroy another person’s source of livelihood, which is farming.”