Chiamaka Ozulumba The GAGE Awards has unveiled its academy of judges for the second edition themed, ‘Year of the Digital Takeover’. The GAGE Awards has become a standard for recognising, and rewarding outstanding digital work on the African continent. Some industry experts have expressed excitement at the second edition based on the credibility of the process and the dire need to encourage outstanding digital innovations in the Nigerian eco system. According to them, this will facilitate innovation and growth in the African digital space. The 2021 academy of judges boasts of a stellar cast of individuals, who have a proven record of success and achievements in their various fields. In a recent release by the organisers in Lagos, the convener of the GAGE Awards reeled out the names of the judges who made the list for the 2021 edition. They include Dr Adebola Akindele, GMD Courteville Business Solutions, a provider of information technology, consulting, and business process outsourcing services. They are the brain behind Autoreg, a digital solution that automates vehicular registration. Chizor Malize, MD/CEO, Financial Institution Training Centre (FITC). She has over two decades of professional experience leading strategic and transformational projects in the financial sector. Moritz Boullenger, CEO Pulse Nigeria, has spent five years contributing to the growth of Pulse as the leading digital company in Sub-Saharan Africa. Nkemdilim Uwaje Begho, CEO Future Software Limited, Committee Chair, Funding Framework for the Nigerian Technology Sector and Non- Executive Director Stanbic IBTC, she is a seasoned Information Technology professional with over 15 years’ experience. Lanre Adisa, CEO Noah’ s Ark, is a creative with over 25 years’ experience in marketing communications. He is the brain behind several successful traditional and digital campaigns in Nigeria. Mai Atafo, CEO Mai Atafo Inspired, is an inspirational Fashion designer who left the corporate world to chase a dream in the fashion industry and created a niche for bespoke fashion services in Nigeria. Also on the list are: Gil Kemami, MD/CEO BBDO MediaEdge Kenya; Modupe Adefeso-Olateju, Managing Director, The Education Partnership Centre; Mr. Uzoma Dozie, Founder/CEO Sparkle, a mobile-first platform for Nigeria’s retail Banking industry, using technology to power financial inclusion. He was also the erstwhile GMD of Diamond bank. Banke Alawaye, CTO aCubed Limited and digital transformation specialist. She has over 20 years of work experience with many businesses and helping many brands make the best of digital tools. Dr. Adeola Olubamiji, Founder STEMHub Foundation, is a Nigerian-Canadian Advanced Manufacturing Technical Advisor with Cummins Inc, Indiana. Funke Bucknor-Obruthe, Founder/CEO Zapphaire Events, is a serial entrepreneur and is regarded as Nigeria’s pioneering event planner. Kelechi Mbah, Founding MD/CEO ServiceDesk, she is a seasoned growth strategist with 15 years of working experience in technology, telecoms, and media industries. Mr. Jason Cumming has traversed the African continent for 19 years providing local solutions with global insights to brands operating in Africa. He has worked with many blue chip companies mainly in management roles for international brand communications networks such as IPG, WPP, Omnicom and M&C Saatchi. He currently works as an international Business Consultant, specializing in the African region. In the words of the Convener of GAGE Awards, Mr. Johnson Anorh, “We have gone through great length to get this collection of individuals to help select the best of some of the most technical categories in this years GAGE Awards. “It has been a very interesting year in the tech space, especially now that the world has learnt to depend on digital technology due to the pandemic.” He continued that the GAGE Awards ‘21 is meant to set standard for digital not just in Nigeria but in Africa. “We understand the importance of bringing on board distinguished men and woman who are not just technocrats but also passionate men and women who love the growth of the digital space in Africa. “Their passion for this growth was one huge factor in their selection. We are very confident about the value of their involvement with the GAGE Awards brand and can’t wait for how the nominations and voting will play out.” According to the CEO, “I think we are in for some excitement within the tech community in the next few months’. “It would be recalled that the GAGE Awards 2021 recently opened up its nominations portal to Nigerians to select their digital heroes who have made their lives simpler especially in the grim year of the pandemic. “Digital ensured our lives still went on despite a global lockdown for a few months.” Some of the categories up for nominations are: Banking App of the Year; Breakout App of the Year; Best Digital Financial Platform; Online Comedian of the Year; Tech Entrepreneur of the Year; Digital Artiste of the Year; Website of the Year; Influencer of the Year; and Social Movement of the Year, Influencer of the Year among others. The GAGE Awards ‘21 comes with introduction of a new category – GAGE STAR OF THE YEAR. This category celebrates the individual or group who took the Internet by storm for the year under review. Nominations will be done strictly on the GAGE Awards website, www.gageawards/nominations . All information about the categories, nominations and guidelines can be found on the website
The maiden edition of the GAGE Awards took place in February this year at the EKO CONVENTION CENTRE. It attracted support and partnership from corporate organisations and Government bodies such as the Nigerian Communications Commission, Lagos State Government and a host of other organizations.
Big winners on the night were GTBank, Airtel, E-Tranzact, Jumia Food, Kiki Mordi, Onyeka Akumah, and Taaooma among others. The GAGE Awards is an initiative of TOMATO DIGITALS; it is aimed at fast tracking the pace of technological growth in Nigeria. By introducing the much-needed standard, GAGE Awards is facilitating growth, innovation and attracting new talents to the digital space. The GAGE Awards celebrates the best of Internet in Africa with a spotlight on Individuals, Influencers, Commerce, Brands and Entertainers for their outstanding activities and contribution to the digital ecosystem annually. The 2021 edition is scheduled to take place next April.