The Nigerian National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has granted Enterprise Life Assurance Company (Nigeria) Limited license to commence operations in the country. This comes after the company met the minimum stated capital requirement of N8 billion in February 2020. According to a statement, Enterprise Life Assurance Company (Nigeria) Limited is a member of the Enterprise Group Plc, a financial services Group with operating companies in insurance, pensions, real estate and funeral services. Speaking on the license acquisition, the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, Keli Gadzekpo, said the move was in line with the Group’s vision of expanding its business footprint beyond Ghana, into the broader West African Sub-region. Gadzekpo said: “As Africa progressively moves into middle-income status, the importance of insurance for risk mitigation and as a savings tool is becoming more important. Enterprise Group is positioned to play a key role in promoting insurance for these reasons. “Over the years, with the support of our clients, we have carved a great reputation for ourselves in service delivery and claims payment. We intend to extend our expertise and strength throughout the West African region. So far, we have had a very successful start with the performance of Enterprise Life in The Gambia and are excited about the opportunity to repeat this success story in Nigeria”. Also, the Managing Director, Enterprise Life, Funmilayo Abimbola Omo, expressed excitement about the opportunity to further enhance the insurance industry in Nigeria. According to her, “Despite the enormous opportunities that come with a burgeoning economy and a large population, insurance penetration in Nigeria is still considerably low. “We believe that the solutions we are about to introduce will resonate well with the Nigerian public, so that more and more people will benefit from the protection that insurance offers. The entry of Enterprise Life is a game changer and our solutions will change the face of insurance in Nigeria,” she added. With an asset base of approximately $288 million, the Enterprise Group has its headquarters in Accra, Ghana and is listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange. The Group has a strategic partnership with Black Star Holdings Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Leapfrog Strategic African Investments , which is a separate account managed by Leapfrog Investments, and in which Prudential Financial, Inc., USA is the primary investor.