By Victor Ogunje The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has commiserated with his Ondo State counterpart, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN), and the people of the state on the passing of the state’s Commissioner for Regional Integration and Special Duties, Prof. Bayonile Ademodi. Ademodi, who was a Professor of Chemical Engineering, died last Saturday, aged 68 years. Fayemi, in a condolence message that was signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Yinka Oyebode, described the late Ademodi as a highly cerebral scholar, diligent public servant and a seasoned administrator that undertook every assignment with diligence and a high level of integrity. He credited the late commissioner with the establishment of the Dawn Commission where he demonstrated his organisational skills and deep understanding of how a region could aggregate its areas of comparative advantage to advance socio-economic development. Fayemi noted that the late professor worked assiduously with others to actualise the Akeredolu’s victory in the 2016 APC’s primaries in Ondo State and in the eventual election and had remained one of the outstanding figures in the administration until he breathed his last. He recalled his personal relationship with the late Ademodi, when he served as a member of the Governing Council of the College of Education, Ikere, during his first term in office and as a colleague in the Yoruba Academy and Afenifere Renewal Group. He described the late commissioner as a man of honour and action with a great knack for delivering set goals with precision. Fayemi said: “Prof. Ademodi’s death is not only a loss to the government and the good people of Ondo State, it is a personal loss to me. We shall miss his amiable personality, dedication to duty and great insight into development issues. “On behalf of the government and good people of Ekiti State, I commiserate with my brother, Governor Akeredolu, the immediate family of the late Prof. Ademodi and the good people of Ondo State on this irreparable loss. Our prayer is that God will grant the family the fortitude to bear the loss,” he said.