Tosin Clegg Rensource, a leading renewable energy services provider in partnership with the Norwegian impact investment company, Empower New Energy, is set to deploy a 700 KWp solar photo-voltaic plant to Nigeria´s largest egg producer, Premium Poultry Farms, Abuja.
The power plant, ground-mounted on Premium Poultry’s farm, will generate ca. 1 gigawatt hour of clean energy annually, save up to 25 000 tons of CO2 in its lifetime and contribute to Abuja´s fight against local air pollution. This landmark project is one of the largest power purchase agreements for solar energy in Nigeria and will represent the poultry industry’s largest single clean energy project. The power plant is expected to operate for at least 25 years, according to the power purchase agreement signed by the off-taker, Premium Poultry and Empower. “This solution for Premium Poultry Farms, Nigeria’s largest egg producer, demonstrates our ability to meet the energy needs of a diverse array of industrial customers. We are honored to supply affordable clean energy to further grow Nigeria’s critically important agricultural sector, while cutting emissions” said Ademola Adesina, founder and CEO of Rensource. Premium Poultry Farms produces 600 000 eggs daily and has its own feed mill, making it the country’s largest egg producer.
This project, which is due to commence in December 2020, will have an important footprint in terms of sustainability. It will save up to 840 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year andcreate 40 jobs during its construction and operations phase.
“We take immense pride in being good stewards of the environment and are pleased to further enhance our efforts with this solution. “Sustainability is at the heart of the farm’s philosophy”, says Alhaji Mahey Rasheed, Chairman of Premium Poultry Farms. Rasheed added: “This project also allows us to benefit from the substantially lower energy costs offered by the solar PV technology and we are excited to become the largest solar-powered poultry farm in the country”. Terje Osmundsen, Founder and CEO of Empower New Energy, said: “Empower is very pleased to collaborate with Rensource Energy in order to finance this project with Premium Poultry Farms, which reflects the success, dynamism and growth of Nigeria’s renewable energy sector. Our investment fund is poised to accelerate Africa’s transition to clean energy and this is evident in how quickly we have able to mobilise financing forthis crucial project.”