By Raheem Akingbolu The Advertisers Association of Nigeria (ADVAN) has concluded plans to honour corporate organisations and other public sector players who have contributed immeasurably to the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic thus far. All prospective awardees would be honoured under a single award category tagged: ‘ADVAN Community of Heroes Award.’ Justifying the need for the recognition, in a statement signed by the Public Secretary of ADVAN, Bukola Bankole, the association said: “ADVAN has over the years showcased and celebrated exceptional work by advertisers in building trusted brands. Categories such as Brand Innovation of the Year, CSR, Consumer Promotions, and Experiential Marketing were some of the categories ADVAN had awarded to deserving organisations in past editions. “However, seeing how 2020 has been an extremely difficult year for our nation and the world as a whole, due to the incursion of the coronavirus and its attended social and economic hardships, we believed it was appropriate to highlight and honour the role of advertisers in providing support to government and communities during the pandemic. “Indeed it was with an immense sense of pride that we watched our beloved advertisers respond to the needs of society during one of the most difficult times in our nation’s history, they were at the front line of the various efforts in providing relief and support to communities and individuals. “The positive impact of advertisers via support activities, ranging from monetary and product donations to education and enlighten programmes, was one of the most welcome and celebrated initiatives during the heart of the pandemic onslaught. “This is why the 2020 Edition of the ADVAN Awards for Marketing Excellence will be dedicated to celebrating organisations that have made significant and lasting contributions to individuals, families and communities wellbeing in the pandemic times. “Our ‘ADVAN Community Heroes Awards’ will be presented to brands that were and still are at the front line of various Covid-19 relief initiatives.” ADVAN will also be showcasing the laudable efforts of these organisations via a special documentary tagged ‘Nigerian Advertisers at the Front line of Covid-19 relief’, which will be aired on various local and international media channels from December 18, 2020. These organisations will also be recipients of the ADVAN Awards for Marketing Excellence ‘Community Heroes Award.’ According to the scribe of ADVAN, the body remains committed to providing value for the marketing communications industry in Nigeria, by highlighting the crucial role of marketing to business and national development.