By Nosa Alekhuogie Options.ng, Nigeria’s free, independent online comparison platform for products across industries and providers has announced the appointment of Mr. Kelechi Ekeghe as its new Chief Executive Officer. A statement by the founder and chairman, Mr. Soji Jenyo, explained that Ekeghe was brought in to build the business and scale the firm along the lines of its growth objectives. “We are privileged to announce that the board, after searching meticulously has brought on board Kelechi Ekeghe who would be bringing his expertise in digital business and transformation towards driving options.ng vision of building Africa’s largest comparison platform. “As the MD/CEO, he will be responsible for driving the company forward for the foreseeable future. The board of directors and I have no doubt that he will do an excellent job leading the company’s amazing team at options.ng,” he said. Ekeghe is a visionary and a seasoned digital business leader with a deep understanding of digital marketing and transformation strategies. He has over 15 years of experience across digital businesses, banking sector and has pioneered start-ups in e-Commerce as well as consulting. He is also an experienced brand expert and a capacity-building coach. Ekeghe started his career in business development at Connectnigeria.com, before he moved to Jobberman.com, then to Fidelity Bank Plc where he pioneered the bank’s digital marketing function and later to Union Bank Nigeria Plc where he led the bank’s digital platforms team. He has consulted for various organisations and has pioneered a life-style start-up (magazine/blog) ‘Urban Man’ and also fostered a digital marketplace for Made in Nigeria products. A member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, London, and Nigeria Institute of Public Relations, he is also a guest lecturer at the Simon Page College of Marketing and Chartered Institute of Marketing, London. Options.ng is Nigeria’s free, independent online comparison platform for products across industries and providers. Their objective is to make information available to their users in a simple, transparent format that will help them make informed decisions. Commenting on his appointment, Ekeghe said: “it is an absolute honour to be entrusted with the firm’s vision and the responsibility of leading the team to achieve its mission. With the support of the board and my colleagues, I assure our customers, and stakeholders that we are committed to accomplishing the next phase of growth and development.”