President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Melvin Pinnick, will on Friday donate brand new sporting facilities and blocks of classrooms to his alma mater, the famous Hussey College in Warri, Delta State. The ceremonial handing over is expected to be witnessed by top personalities in sports and government. Pinnick, in his second term as President of the NFF, a former 1st Vice President of the Confederation of African Football (CAF) and presently Member of the Organising Committee for FIFA Competitions, is presenting the facilities to his former college as part of activities to mark his Golden Jubilee anniversary. “Hussey College has an intimidating pedigree when it comes to sports. The school has produced a long list of the nation’s real icons in football and other sports, as well as juggernauts in other fields of human endeavour. I am proud to be able to do something for this great institution. “On Friday, I will be presenting to the school a new football field with a sitting pavillion that has plastic seats, as well as a new volleyball court and two fully –furnished blocks of classrooms,” Pinnick said. In addition, Pinnick will also be presenting to the school authorities four sets of Hussey College customized football jerseys and balls, as well as four sets of volleyball jerseys and balls. Hussey College, one of the most renowned secondary institutions of learning in the country, has churned out distinguished personalities in sports, banking, commerce, education, law, engineering, entertainment, the military, economics, media and persons who went on to become monarchs. Among them are the immediate past and the present crowned heads of Warri (Ogiame Atuwatse II and Ogiame Ikenwoli), some other leading traditional rulers, Brigadier-General Mobolaji Johnson (former military Governor of Lagos State), Admiral Festus Porbeni (former Member of then Provisional Ruling Council), Dr Gaius Jackson Obaseki (former GMD of NNPC), Otunba Bode Alalade (broadcasting legend), Bismarck Rewane (foremost economist) and showbiz impresario Ken Calebs Olumese. Former Nigerian international players Thompson Usiyen, Jossy Dombraye, Clement Temile, Mike Obiku, Morten Owolo, Ebiyon Dediare, Ogbein Fawole, Kenneth Nwamuocha, Victor Ighedosa, Humphrey Djebah and Makpor Dibofun all passed through Hussey College. “Football, nay sport is a veritable and venerable calling these days. Our youths need facilities and equipment for physical, mental and talent development. We also have the responsibility to provide them with the conducive environment to discover their actual talent and hone the same, and nurture it for the greater good of the country in future international competitions,” Pinnick added. Top officials of the Delta State Government, captains of industry, prominent alumni of Hussey College, monarchs, political and business heavyweights and high-end entrepreneurs are expected at the handing-over ceremony.