• Suspects foul play, seeks further clarification
Tobi Soniyi The people of Ayetoro-Gbede, the hometown of General Olubunmi Irefin who died suddenly on December 10 during the Chief of Army Staff Conference have rejected the explanation given by the army for his death. In a statement issued on behalf of the Olu of Ayetoro Gbede, Oba D.S Ehindero, Ayetoro Development Association and Ayetoro Gbede Traditional Council, the community said it suspected foul play given the circumstances of Irefin’s death. The statement signed by A.A. Aminu read: “The sequence of events before Irefin’s death and the main cause of his sudden death as propounded by the military authority, which they claimed is COVID-19 made the highest decision organs of Ayetoro Gbede community namely, Ayetoro Gbede Traditional Council and Ayetoro Gbede Development Association to interrogate the main cause of his death as propounded by the military authority. “We should not forget that General Olubunmi Irefin was in Ayetoro Gbede two weeks ago for the burial ceremony of his late mother. During the brief period of his stay at home, he was full of life, and, observers of the general will agree that every movement of his, was with military precision. “Suddenly, a signal came to him from Abuja to attend Chief of Army Staff Conference which started last Monday, December 7.
‘We did not hear of his sickness until the sad news came to us yesterday, 10th December, 2020 that the General died of Covid -19; and the sudden rush for his burial tomorrow 12th December, 2020. ‘The mouth piece of Ayetoro Gbede community namely, Ayetoro Gbede Traditional Council and Ayetoro Gbede Development Association were not happy with the military establishment over the reason it claimed was responsible for the death of General Olubunmi Irefin for the following reasons: “If the incubation period of Covid-19 is 2 weeks after which the victim will start to show symptoms like high fever, severe headache etc, is that the case for late General Olubunmi Irefin? “Even if the symptoms mentioned above manifest in the General, does it also kills it victim instantly?
“At advance age, the former Chief of Staff to the President, late Abba Kyari, battled Covid -19 for weeks before he died, common logic should tell us that General Irefin at younger age, even if it is true that he contacted Covid -19 should be able to battle it for longer period of time. “Except there is Covid -20 which we doubt, Covid -19 does not kill it victims for 3 days. Why the sudden haste in the burial of the General by the military authority?” The community said until the military authority provided convincing answers to the above quest, Ayetoro would not be happy with the military establishment over the reason it claimed was responsible for Irefin’s death.
The community, however, expressed deep sorrow over Irefin’s sudden death.