The United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc said it carted two laurels at the BusinessDay’s Bank and other Financial Institutions awards (BAFI). Precisely, the bank said it won the ‘Bank of the Year’ and the ‘International Bank of the Year’ at the event held recently. The bank said it beat other contenders to clinch the two top categories in a well-attended ceremony comprising of bank CEOs, captains of industries and senior financial executives. According to a statement, UBA won the ‘Bank of the Year’ in recognition of its effort in outperforming its peers using a composite of financial metrics, strategic foresight, execution discipline, world-class governance and global vision. “The bank also won the award for ‘International Bank of the Year’, a keenly contested category, that pitches Nigerian financial institutions that have expanded on the continent against their international peers operating across Africa,” the statement added. UBA’s Deputy Managing Director, Mr. Liadi Ayoku, who received the awards on behalf of the bank, expressed his delight on the recognition. He said, “These awards mark another milestone for UBA Group and is a testament of the diligent execution of the bank’s strategic initiatives on customer service. Being recognised as Nigeria’s best bank complements positive feedback from customers and is a recognition of our improving efficiencies, service quality and innovation. “I therefore dedicate it to our growing loyal corporate and retail customers, who are our essence. Given our heritage commitment to Africa’s development, we continue to impact lives through our service as well as funding to individuals, businesses and government,” he noted. Ayoku, pointed out that the bank remains focused on its goal of democratising banking in Africa, leveraging on new technologies and emphasised its determination to change the narrative of financial services in Africa. Publisher of BusinessDay Newspapers, organisers of the event, Frank Aigbogun, noted that UBA has excelled in the key areas of prioritising customers, which according earned the bank the double honours. While explaining the rationale behind UBA winning the two prestigious categories in its December issue, Aigbogun noted that the bank stood out in prioritising customers as has been evident in the significant rise in customer deposits which leaped by 35.7 per cent to N5.2 trillion up from N3.8 trillion at the end of the last financial year.