Carleton University’s Sprott School of Business and Atlantic Hall School, Epe, have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to enhance entrepreneurship and experiential learning opportunities for secondary school students in Nigeria. Commenting on the partnership, the Dean of Sprott School of Business, Dana Brown said: “We are delighted to enter this educational partnership with Atlantic Hall School. We look forward to collaborating on teaching and learning initiatives that foster entrepreneurship and the next generation of change makers.” Through the partnership, Sprott School of Business faculty in the Technology Innovation Management programme will provide training to teachers from Atlantic Hall School to enhance the delivery of entrepreneurship education using experiential learning techniques that emphasise innovation management and new venture development. According to the Principal and CEO of Atlantic Hall School, Andrew Jedras, “this highly creative initiative paves the way for a new relevant approach that will influence the way future curricular design interfaced with technology may offer real life cross-institutional learning opportunities to students both in Nigeria and Canada. “Utilising an innovative project-centered and active experiential delivery mode, students are fully and purposefully engaged in entrepreneurial programmes.” In addition, select students from Atlantic Hall will participate in project-based learning at the Sprott School of Business as interns and will be mentored within the Sprott Student Consulting Group. The student consultants work in teams with real clients from business and community organisations to address a variety of business challenges and needs. “The synergy and commitment of two world class institutions, bringing school and university students, teachers and professors working in close collaboration on actual community based entrepreneurial projects can only serve to further enrich and enhance the wider learning experiences of all,” Jedras added. The Chairman, Board of Trustees of Atlantic Hall,
Chief Mrs. Taiwo Taiwo said: “I speak on behalf of the trustees of Atlantic Hall to express our profound excitement that this unique partnership, which portends limitless opportunities for both our institutions and in a year in which we celebrated our 30th anniversary, has come into being.” Also, the Nigerian High Commissioner to Canada, Adeyinka Asekun said: “This is such heartwarming news and clearly a milestone during our time in Canada to date. I would like to acknowledge and appreciate all the hard work and tenacity on the part of various individuals that have made this possible. To Dean Dana Brown and her team at Carleton and Chief Taiwo Taiwo and her team at Atlantic Hall, I say kudos and congratulations! I believe the success of this well thought out collaboration will inspire and encourage many more such initiatives.”