· Receives awards on exemplary leadership, security Innocent Onuminya in Gusau Amid the rising wave of abduction in the Northwest, Zamfara State Governor, Dr. Bello Matawalle has canvassed a collective approach to tackling the country’s intractable security rather than apportioning blames on one another. Matawalle, also, said he would not breach the social contract with the people of Zamfara State, which according to him, was the central reason he was elected the governor of the state at the time a people-centred was much in need. He made these remarks at the 2020 Access Weekly Magazine Colloquium & Awards held at the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) Conference and Exhibition Centre, Alausa at the weekend. Matawalle was honoured at the colloquium for his exemplary leadership qualities and improved security under his administration alongside Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu, among others. The colloquium is an annual event of Access Weekly Magazine published by Mr. Sola Olugbemiro. This edition focused on: “The Revolutionary Change in Youth Movement: Strategies for Youth Mobilisation & Engagement.” Receiving the award at the colloquium, Matawalle canvassed a collective approach to security challenges facing the country, especially the North while urging leaders at all levels to stop apportioning blames. The governor explained that security should always be seen and treated as everybody’s business, thereby calling for a more coordinated approach to making the country more secure for all its citizens and more conducive for investment, development, and progress. Matawalle, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Media, Public Enlightenment and Communications, Mr. Zailani Bappa urged the governments at all levels “to engage the youths and implement skills acquisition programmes that would make them self-reliant or self-sufficient.” He attributed his administration’s success in security to what he described as the fair implementation of social intervention programmes and other employment opportunities initiated when he assumed office. According to him, the programmes have been yielding positive results. He said: “Our youths are now more engaged in one way or the other. As a result, the crime rate is going down. And we will sustain this effort in order to make our state safer, first for its residents and also for investments. Presenting the award to the governor, Editor-in-Chief, Access Weekly Magazine, Mr. Dada Dele said the organisation decided to honour Matawalle at the 2020 colloquium and award due to unprecedented improvement the state government had recorded in the area of security. Dada observed that since Matawalle’s assumption, the narrative in Zamfara State has changed significantly both in reality and in the news unlike the daily reports of killings and wanton destruction of life and property of innocent citizens that had become the identity of the state in the past. He noted that the organisation honoured Matawalle as a strategy to encourage him to do more for his people and make other governors follow his footsteps in addressing security challenges facing their respective states.