Francis Sardauna in Katsina A human rights organisation, the Network for Justice, has called for the immediate investigation of the allegations brought against the Katsina State Government on misappropriation of security funds by one Mr. Mahadi Shehu. The National Chairman of the Network, Dr. Bashir Kurfi, who made the call yesterday while addressing journalists in Katsina, said the allegations should be thoroughly investigated and the culprits brought to book. Shehu, an indigene of Katsina State and Kaduna-based business mogul, has accused the Katsina State Governor, Mr. Aminu Bello Masari, of misappropriating security funds and public funds amounting to the tune of N56 billion. Reports indicated that Shehu, who was nabbed by the police on November 25, 2020, after presenting a paper at an occasion in Abuja, has been bitten by snake in police custody. Kurfi was worried that Shehu’s allegation might not be investigated by either State government or the federal government in spite of their anti-corruption policy agenda, even though his petition has been submitted to the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) and Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC). He said: “The revelation by Mr. Shehu seems to convince the public that there is element of reliability to his allegation fundamentally because of the massive data he provided such as bank accounts, financial transactions, activities, history, date and name. “But up till date, there is no statement by the Katsina State Government officially disputing these very serious allegations nor those mentioned dispute the allegation. “While we recognise the function of the security agencies with regard to arrests, detention, the Network for Justice demand that the allegations raised by Shehu to be thoroughly investigated and the culprits to be brought to book. “As a human right organisation, we hope and assume while Shehu is in custody of law enforcement, he must be treated with dignity and as provided by our laws and the international best practice.”