The Managing Director/CEO, Engineering Automation Technology Limited (EATECH), Dr. Emmanuel Okon has offered to upgrade one of the oldest schools in Abak, Akwa Ibom state with science equipment.
The move is to encourage the study of science and technology in the college. St. Mary’s Science College Abak was established in 1953 as the first science secondary school in that part of the state.
Okon who attended the College has also called for collaboration between ex-students of the school and the Akwa Ibom government in the resuscitation of decayed infrastructure in secondary schools in the state. Okon who lamented the rot in critical infrastructure in the state’s foremost science secondary school, said the failure by private and public sectors to partner to commit huge funds into science and technology education at primary and post-primary levels amounted to a deliberate decision to kill the state’s future given the role ICT plays in the growth and prosperity of the the contemporary society. Okon who was chairman of the fundraising event for the renovation of the science college held in Uyo recently said he would fund the renovation and equipping of one of the abandoned school’s science laboratories and upgrade it to meet international standard. “This school founded in 1953 has produced the best of science, technology and medical professionals achieving feats within the country and globally, particularly in the last 33 years, and we must assist in restoring it to its lost glory,” Okon said. “As a product of the school, I am deeply concerned about the current state of rot in infrastructure. I think we will require at least N200 million to fix things and get the school to operate at the shape, quality and pride it once held and I appeal to alumni and government to support this worthy cause so that by 2021 students sitting for their final exams would operate under conditions and ambience better than the current obsolete and rotten state,” he added. Speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Mr. Aniekan Bassey and Commissioner for Information, Mr. Ini Ememobong, both alumni of the school, pledged to partner with the newly inaugurated old students association to renovate the school. Longest serving principal of the school, Mr. Christiansus Asuka, lauded ex-students for the initiative to resuscitate infrastructure in the school even as he appealed to alumni in top government position to ensure the best teachers are posted to the school. He also called for sustainable science education in Nigeria from primary to university level.