By Ibrahim Shuaibu A coalition of civil society organizations fighting corruption in Nigeria, Citizens Voice Against Corruption (CIVAC), has described a story published by an online newspaper on the Director General, Department of State Services as a deliberate misinformation. The convener of the group Mr Abdulrazak Alkali in a press statement made available to THISDAY in Kano on Thursday, described the report as politically motivated and said it was published to tarnish the image of the Director General of the SSS, Yusuf Bichi. “The Pointblank reporter deliberately chose to launch his blackmail toward the DG by hiding behind the destruction of lives’ and public properties arising from the recent #ENDSARS protest that engulfed the nation some months ago. “The aim is politically motivated to discredit the selfless service of the DSS as an agency, create division within the ranks of its officers and politicise the efforts of the DSS boss in bringing the agency back to effectiveness and respect for rule of law. Mr Alkali recalled that, President Buhari appointed Mr Bichi as an experienced and selfless director to steer the DSS away from the rot and impunity. According to him, Mr Bichi came in with so much experience gained over decades of service with the DSS. “During his career service, Mr Bichi underwent training in intelligence processing analysis, agent handling, as well as recruitment and processing in the United Kingdom. This is in addition to various other strategic training at the National Defence College. “Mr Bichi worked as the State Director of DSS in various states including Jigawa, Abia, Niger and Sokoto states. He also served in the capacity of Director at the following units; National Assembly Liaison (National War College), Directorate of Security Enforcement, Directorate of Operations, Directorate of Intelligence and Directorate of Administration and Finance. We can all agree that Mr Bichi brought enormous experience and skills to the job,” Mr Alkali said. The civil society activist highlighted some of the successes recorded by DSS under the leadership of Mr Bichi in areas of fight against bandits and their collaborators, kidnappers, gun runners and members and sympathisers of terrorist organisations, as well as the handling of the activities of IPOB and #RevolutionNow movements whose aim is the total destabilisation and destruction of Nigeria. This according to him is evident from the increasing number of national and international commendations showered on the DSS boss for the effectiveness and efficiency of the DSS under his leadership as well as its respect for citizens’ rights and Nigeria’s constitution. “The DSS does not flaunt its operations and activities to the public, rather most operations and activities are classified, and this is the norm for State and Secret Service departments all over the world. “As such if the Pointblank reporter is not aware of the actions of DSS regarding operations pre and post the #ENDSARS menace that is because such information is not meant for the public. “The present DG, has instilled selflessness and discipline within the DSS and that might be something that corrupt officers and their political sponsors are not happy with. “It is on record how previous administrations use the DSS officials as political tools to attack and blackmail opposition and in manipulating democratic processes, all of which is no longer happening under his leadership. “However, in such circumstances it is expected that corrupt officials and their sponsors will fight back mainly by resorting to.. media blackmail against the DG which we are presently witnessing,” the activist said. To this end Mr Alkali called on Nigerians, irrespective of political affiliation, to avoid spreading misinformation that will damage the integrity and confidence of security agencies and their personnel.