Michael Olugbode in Abuja An auxiliary nurse, Rhoda Aladeboyeje has lamented how her American dream turned out a ruse.
Rhoda, a mother of four, who was trafficked by her immediate elder brother with a promise of a nursing job opportunity in America, ended up in Cairo, Egypt. Rhoda, 35 years who arrived Nigeria on Saturday at 4.50 am via Royal Air Maroc, narrating her ordeal, said she was trafficked on March 17 and was sexually harassed on a regular basis, beaten frequently and home imprisoned sometimes. She lamented that her going to America turned out to be a ruse, and was instead trafficked to Egypt, where she went through so much torture and hell. She regained her freedom when a distress call from her family member was received by Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), which contacted the Nigerian Mission in Cairo that put logistics in place to facilitate her return to Nigeria.
She was however able to be brought back into the country, after her family made provisions for her flight ticket home. Rhoda, according to a statement by NIDCOM, had been released to link up with her family in Okitipupa, Ondo state.
The Chairman/CEO, (NIDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, however appealed to youths travelling out to be purposeful and beware of dangerous people, trafficking them out for their selfish and personal gains. Dabiri-Erewa, who was represented by Mr. Ayo Okuribido to receive Rhoda at the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos at 2.00 a.m. thanked the Nigerian Mission in Cairo for prompt intervention.
The NIDCOM boss lamented that Rhoda’s story was the same as that of many victims, lured abroad under the guise of securing them a job. She restated her appeal for Nigerians especially youth trooping out of the country in search of an elusive greener pasture, insisting that traffickers should be arrested, named, shamed and punished for this dastardly act.
Dabiri-Erewa thanked God for Rhoda making it back to Nigeria alive and urged her not to be tempted to embark on such a journey again. Rhoda had earlier been profiled by Immigration officials on her return, and handed over to NAPTIP, in the presence of a representative of the family, Mr. Benjamin Akinbobola.