Oluchi Chibuzor
The Asset & Resources Management Holding Company (ARM) has given a boost to healthcare facilities in Lagos State with the renovation and donation of a set of laboratory equipment to the outpatient health centre at Onikan. The face lift to the hospital facility built in the 60’s according to ARM was in line with its corporate social responsibility (CSR) strategy, to support the Lagos State government in the battle against Covid-19, as well as support immediate communities to live healthy life for growth and economic prosperity. Receiving the donation on behalf of the state government recently, the Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi said the equipment was first of its kind in Nigeria and in the whole of West Africa. “For this, I must congratulate ARM for being the first donor of this equipment in Nigeria and indeed West Africa and we are happy for this contribution from ARM, we are auspicious that with such support from different persons and corporate organisations, we shall meet our target to making Lagos Covid-19 free and other diseases,” he said. Abayomi who applauded the gesture said it would help Lagos in containing the impact of Covid-19, as the equipment would help the hospital to effectively manage blood transfusion by ensuring that only safe and clean blood is received from donors and transferred to recipients. He also said the state was making efforts to contain the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, by increasing public health response and maintaining a balanced economic system. The Chief Executive Officer of ARM Holdings, Jumoke Ogundare, who spoke during the official presentation said this year has been a challenging one for all nations including Nigeria as a result of Covid-19 pandemic.
Ogundare said ARM has looked at the impact of the pandemic on the health sector as well as the population, and so decided to make a difference with renovation of the facility and donation of the equipment. “This is in line with our Corporate Social Responsibility, and we are hoping that it will help the State government, the hospital and the immediate community, particularly at this time when Covid-19 has taken a huge toll on our economy,” she stated. Meanwhile, the Medical Director, Onikan Health Centre, Biyi Kufor, thanked ARM for coming to support the state and the hospital with the facilities, stating that Centrifuge equipment donated by ARM “is the best that could happen to the hospital at this time.”