By Olawale Ajimotokanin The 13th edition of the CBN Governor’s Golf Tournament, scheduled to tee off at the IBB International Golf and Country Club, Abuja on Saturday will be organised in conformity with the sports codes and protocol approved by the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 for the resumption of non-contact sports in Nigeria. The assurance was made yesterday by the Acting Director Corporate Communications, CBN, Mr. Osita C. Nwanisobi while briefing the media on the annual golf tournament. The protocol put in place are meant to gradually restart sports after over eight-month of abrupt disruption to sporting activities by the pandemic. In line with the protocol on prevention of Covid-19, organizers of the tournament said provision will be made for soap, running water and alcohol- based hand sanitisers on the golf course, while players are to observe two metres physical distancing rule. Also, infrared thermometers will be made available for screening of players and guests at the club. Nwanisobi expressed the pleasure of management of the apex bank that the CBN Governor’s Golf Cup has become an important feature in the calendar of events of IBB Golf Club. “Though the global sporting calendar for 2020 has been greatly disrupted due to the coronavirus pandemic, I am glad to note that it has not affected the scheduling of this year’s edition of the tournament. “However, in organizing the tournament, we shall abide by the sports codes and protocol approved by the PTF for the resumption of non-contact sports in Nigeria,” he assured. He stressed the objective of sponsoring the CBN Governor’s Golf Cup, which began in 2007, is to create an ambiance for recreation for distinguished personalities in government, the organised private sector, elder statesmen, and members of the diplomatic corps, who are golfers. The various categories in which trophies and prizes will be competed for by golfers include include Men’s Category 1 (Handicap 0 – 14); Men’s Category 2 (Handicap 15-28); Gross (Men); Ladies’ Category 1 (Handicap 0 -20); Ladies’ Category 2 (Handicap 21 -30); CBN Staff Category, CBN retired staff Category and CBN Guests Category. Others include: Veterans Category for men and ladies; Auxiliary prizes for Nearest to the Pin for ladies, Men and CBN Staff; Longest Drive for ladies, men and CBN staff. The overall winner will carts away the best nett prize.