· Urges well-meaning citizens to adopt a project Kayode Fasua in Abeokuta The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, yesterday appealed to well-meaning citizens to adopt development programmes or projects for their various communities amid acute infrastructure deficit facing the country. Osinbajo, also, noted that governments alone could not meet the social and economic needs of the people, hence the need for individual and corporate interventions to address infrastructure deficit in communities. He made the call at the 1st Annual General Meeting of Remo Growth and Development Foundation (RemoGDF), held at the foundation’s secretariat in Iperu-Remo, Ogun State. He particularly commended personalities in his Remo native community of Ogun State while urging others to emulate them. He said they had excelled in bringing economic prosperity to the grassroots. Osinbajo addressed the meeting through the Zoom Video Conference, though was physically represented on the occasion by his Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring and Evaluation, Mr Babatunde Osibamowo. In his address, the vice president explained that it “is glaring that the government alone cannot meet the socioeconomic needs of the people, hence the need for collaborative efforts from gifted individuals.” Commenting on fresh developmental initiatives in Remoland, Osinbajo said it was important for the locals to take full advantage of Ogun State’s location-between Lagos and Oyo states, and leap in development. “This task is not for the government alone, but also that of every citizen in the country, to contribute in achieving our dream; in that context, groups like the RemoGDF come in handy. I congratulate the RGDF for empowering the youth, as empowering them is key to our future prosperity. “I salute the Akarigbo (monarch) of Remo land for the establishment of the Akarigbo Corporate Council and for his leadership and clear vision for the development of the state”, the vice president applauded. Complementing the vice president, the paramount ruler of Remoland, the Akarigbo, Oba Babatunde Ajayi, called for continual efforts in aiding the growth and economic prosperity of Remoland and Ogun State as a whole. He lauded his subjects for organising themselves into “such a visionary group, whose major interest is to work for the betterment and uplifting of the socio-economic being of the residents of Remoland and the state in particular”. Taking a cue from Osinbajo, he also urged them to take full advantage of the strategic location of the state, being next to Lagos State-the commercial nerve centre of the country, and harness all the potentials towards improving on the economic fortunes of Remoland and Ogun State as a whole. The monarch enjoined the ‘sons’ and ‘daughters’ of Remoland to increase the tempo of their commitment to the area’s economic growth and “keep the flag flying higher”. Oba Ajayi, said to be the brain behind the formation of the foundation, noted that the achievements of RemoGDF within its short period in existence, had been very startling, even as he prodded the group’s members to put in more effort. Also at the meeting, the Chairman of RemoGDF, Chief Tunji Lawal-Solarin, said that the group, established in 2018 with over 500 members, had remained committed to developing Remoland and turning it into a destination point in economic prosperity, and also, be a safe haven for all to dwell. Lawal-Solarin said part of the achievements of the group was the construction of Passport Office in Sagamu, the provision of an electric transformer for residents of GRA, Sagamu, and the construction of Multi-door Courthouse/Alternative Dispute Resolution Centre within High Court, Makun, Sagamu. He added that the group also supported residents of Remoland during the COVID-19 lockdown. While thanking members of the group for their cooperation and selflessness in the last two years, Lawal-Solarin urged all the indigenes of Remoland “at home and in the Diaspora” to redouble their efforts and be more concerned with the development of their community. Other dignitaries at the occasion include Chief Kola Oyefeso, Co-chairman of the group; Chief S.K. Onafowokan; Prof Adewale Solarin; Prince Wemmy Osude; the Elepe of Epe, Sagamu, Oba Adewale Osiberu, and the Onirolu of Irolu-Remo, Oba Sikiru Adeyiga.