Nomination for the second edition of the GAGE Awards have commenced as Nigerians have been called to nominate their favourite individuals and brands who brought value to their lives using digital technology in 2020. The GAGE Awards celebrates the best of Internet in Africa with a spotlight on Individuals, Influencers, Commerce, Brands and Entertainers for their outstanding activities and contribution to the digital ecosystem annually with the second edition scheduled to take place in April 2021. Facilitated by the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the GAGE organisers, year 2020 is the year digital became the mainstay of our lives, as the world experienced lockdown for months,” adding, “digital made sure we survived and changed the way we do things forever, as it is now time to celebrate and reward the innovators and creators who ensured we came out unscathed.” The GAGE Awards‘21 is themed ‘Year Of The Digital Takeover’, which according to the organisers, is a true testament as digital opened us to new possibilities. “We suddenly embrace working from home, video conferencing, e-concerts, home schooling and many more. This is what GAGE Awards 2021 is celebrating. The call for nominations is opened to 20 categories in five areas which includes; Innovation, Information, Inspiration, Entertainment and Business. “Some of the categories open for nomination are Banking App of the Year, Breakout App of the Year, Best Digital Financial Platform, Online Comedian of the Year, Tech Entrepreneur of the Year, Digital Artiste of the Year, Website of the Year, Influencer of the Year, Social Movement of the Year, Influencer of the Year etc. The GAGE Awards ‘21 comes with introduction of a new category – GAGE STAR OF THE YEAR. This category celebrates the individual or group who took the Internet by storm for the year under review,” the organisers said. According to the organisers, nominations will be done strictly on the GAGE Awards website, www.gageawards.com, adding that all information about the categories, nominations and guidelines can be found on the website. The GAGE Awards is an initiative of Tomato Digitals; which is aimed at fast tracking the pace of technological growth in Nigeria. By introducing the much-needed standard, GAGE Awards is facilitating growth, innovation and attracting new talents to the digital space.