Beverage and Food firm, Suntory Beverage & Food Nigeria Limited, has unveiled a new Lucozade variant, Lucozade Cola, in the market. According to the company, the new product was introduced to meet evolving consumers’ needs, while ensuring that their refreshment needs are met. Speaking during the launch of the product in Lagos, recently, Head of Marketing & Trade Marketing at Suntory Beverage & Food, Boma Harrison, stated that Lucozade Cola, a glucose-based energy drink, with a cola flavour, is an extension of the Lucozade energy drink. He said, “Lucozade Cola gives pure and beneficial energy that stimulates mental and physical positivity of its consumers, which are largely the youths. With our latest, you now have the energy to get through it plus the fun side of Cola, ensuring the pursuit of your passion never stops. Welcome to the Cooola side of Lucozade with Lucozade Cola. With all the negativity in the world, we all need some energy to go through it”. He added, “Lucozade Cola is a vibrant drink intended for our vibrant consumers. They are the everyday, on-the-go men and women who consider themselves as hustlers and digital citizens. These are people leading full and busy lives and have an innate desire to progress and succeed. We want to provide our consumers with products that will enable them in the pursuit of their passions and also support their yearning for an ideal world that is free of negativity. “We want the brand to resonate with the lifestyle of our target audience which is fun, trendy and social. These are the value-conscious people who want to lend a voice to the development of the country. Lucozade Cola is powered by Glucose. The importance of glucose to the body is unique. It is an important energy source that is needed by all organs of the body especially the muscles and the brain. “With the drink ,you get the benefit of refreshment and revitalization during moments when you need energy at work, brainstorming and traffic. it’s your partner for the pursuit of your goals with the fun side of Cola”. Harrison further restated the commitment of the company to innovation that would enhance the wellness of customers. He added that the product which is already in the market is available in pet size bottle at a retail price of N270.