Bassey Inyang in Calabar The Cross River State Police Commissioner, Mr. Abdulkadir Jimoh, is dead.
Jimoh died yesterday morning at a COVID-19 Isolation Centre, located at the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital. However, a close relative of the late police commissioner who spoke in confidence to THISDAY, said he was working down the staircase of his official residence when he slumped and immediately went into coma from where he was rushed to the health facility. However, the source who refused to believe the claim that Jimoh died of COVID-19 complications, said he was actually not feeling well for some weeks before his death. He said the commissioner may have had a bout with pneumonia before he died.
Chief Medical Director, CMD, of the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital, UCTH, Professor Ikpeme Ikpeme who confirmed the death of commissioner of police, said he was brought in to the hospital practically dead. As a result of the death of Jimoh, the CMD has advised all those who had close contact with him some days before he died to visit the UCTH for COVID-19 test, and also embark on self-isolation for the clinically specified period of 14 days. In his reaction to the tragic development, the state governor, Professor Ben Ayade lamented saying he was shocked and saddened over the death of Jimoh, describing his passing as a great loss to the state, country and the police force. Ayade in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Christian Ita, described Jimoh as “a brave and courageous officer who was a central figure in the fight against kidnapping and other crimes in the state.” Eulogising the fallen Commissioner of Police for his commitment and dedication to ensuring safety of lives and property in the state, Ayade said: “You were a hero in our relentless quest to ensure peace. Your gallantry and bravey will remain an enduring memory as we mourn your sudden demise.” Continuing, the governor said: “You kept us safe and gave us your all. We will forever remember you for your courage and bravery. Nothing will fill the void your passing has created, especially in our fight against criminality.” Ayade said, “late Jimoh’s skills, dexterity intellect and expertise will be sorely missed as we unite to confront the security challenges in the country. I have indeed lost a true friend and a brother.” Urging the late commissioner of police’s family to bear the irreparable loss with equanimity and total submission to God, the governor prayed the Almighty Allah to grant Jimoh’s soul peaceful rest in Ajana. As of press time, the state police command had made no statement about the demise of the commissioner.