The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has charged residents to be cautious and adhere to public health and safety measures against the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) during the festive season, amid rise in the number of confirmed cases in the second wave of the virus. The governor, in a statement, charged the people to, in the spirit of the season of love, intensify protective measures such as wearing face masks, hand washing and practicing physical distancing to protect themselves and the aged who make up only five per cent of the state’s population. Obaseki noted that the state has recorded 12 new cases in the last 24 hours, raising the number of active cases in the state to 48. According to him, “As we celebrate this season of love, we must be circumspect so as not to lose our loved ones. Except it is absolutely necessary to go out, please stay at home.” He added: “In as much as the government will enforce the rules relating to COVID-19 in Edo State, it is important that each and every one of us take personal responsibility to protect ourselves and the people around us. We must abide by all public health and safety measures to ensure that we are safe.” Obaseki, who reassured that his government remains committed to containing the virus and protecting all Edo people, noted: Our case management system is intact to provide care for confirmed cases. We also have 4 well-equipped, functional isolation centers spread across the state. “Even though we have created the capacity to respond to the new outbreak of COVID-19, our strategy to cope with the second wave is to decrease the incidence of the disease and decrease the mortality from the disease.” Reassuring the government’s commitment to containing the pandemic across all communities in the state, the governor added, “Just as we collectively fought the first wave of COVID-19 together earlier this year, if we remember to wash our hands regularly with soap and water, keep a safe distance from other people and wear facemasks when in public, we will similarly overcome this wave.”