As human beings and as Muslims, we all are in the know that death is an appointment every soul awaits. And Qur’an 3:185 says: “Everyone shall taste death. And only on the Day of Resurrection shall you be paid your wages in full. And whoever is removed away from the Fire and admitted to Paradise, he indeed is successful. The life of this world is only the enjoyment of deception (a deceiving thing).” Thus, as inevitable as death is, we should, rather than fear it, prepare for it. For, before its time, it will never come. And once its time comes, it becomes closer to the so destined than even the tiniest atom. And if we prepare for it by living a life that is in tandem with the teachings of the Qur’an and the sunnah of Prophet Muhammad (the greatest man to have ever set foot on the planet earth), on the day of Resurrection, we will be paid with Jannah. Thus, while He loves her more than we do, we are consoled by the fact that Hajiya Hajara lived a righteous life. She served God and humanity. Hajiya Yaya, as she was fondly called, impacted positively not only on her children but also on everybody else who got the privilege to meet her. As a mother, she was everything a mother is. She loved her children, sacrificed and dedicated herself for their comfort, protection and security. Hajiya Yaya was a role model for her children – for, she was very much aware of her responsibilities of setting goals for them and encouraging them based on their potential. She was relied upon by many for advice and guidance. Thus, as Governor Inuwa Yahya of Gombe State rightly said in a condolence message to her family, she left when she was most needed. Her advice and guidance are needed now, more than any other time, when community and political leaders must come together to work towards making the society a better place to live, worship and work. It was last Thursday, 10th November, 2020, that the Angel of death visited Hajiya Hajara, wife of the late Alhaji Isiaku Gwamna, and whisked her away at the age of over 90 years. But He is always right. For, His plans are the best of plans. His arrangements are the best. His wishes happen as He wishes. Thus, by His wishes, we were blessed with her. She was a blessing. And blessing begets blessing. Therefore, even as she departed, she lives. She lives in her children, grandchildren, great grandchildren and those who were privileged to meet her. Mukhtar Jarmajo,
Gombe 