Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has said his administration will continue to partner and support operatives of the Nigeria Police Force to achieve a well-coordinated policing to protect lives and property of residents. The governor said the state government is already in partnership with the Inspector General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu and officers of Ogida Police Training School to build a formidable Police Force to tackle criminality in the state. Obaseki disclosed this when he received members of the Police OfficerS’ Wives Association (POWA), led by the President and wife of IG, Hajiya Fatima Adamu, who were on a courtesy visit at the Government House in Benin City. The governor called on states to support the Federal Police as the pressure and responsibility to secure the people of the country is more on them. “More needs to be done for the federal police as the capacity to do more for the country is high and the responsibility is huge on them. We believe it is time for us all to help and assist in redesigning the police system in this country. “We should pick up some of the weights off the federal police, allowing the system to be better funded, equipped and with officers that are better trained to police the federation effectively,” he noted. According to him, “We have trained and graduated 800 community police personnel and the other 1,200 will soon be called up for training in the next few weeks. We are investing in the Police Training School in Ogida Police Barrack to make it a permanent and proper training facility. “We are working with the IGP and those in charge of training to build a police force that we all would be proud of.” The governor attributed the jail break in the State during the #EndSARS protests to enemies of the State who wanted to truncate democracy and make the state ungovernable. “We have done the little we can to show and reassure our policemen of our support, respect and love for them. We have gone round all the divisions and area commands to inspect the damaged properties and show that we are concerned. “Our contractors are currently on site and pulling down the debris of all the burnt stations, redesigning and rebuilding all of them in the State.” Earlier, the wife of the IG and President of POWA, Hajiya Adamu, commended Governor Godwin Obaseki for his steadfastness, commitment and support for the Edo State Police Command during the fall out of the #EndSARS protests across the country. The wife of the IG represented by Catherine Ogbizi, said: “The effect of the #ENDSARS protests is devastating and the destruction immeasurable and Edo State is the worst hit. We are here to commiserate with Edo people and thank you for the support given to the police in the state.”