By Adedayo Akinwale The President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan; Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Idris Wase, and some governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are billed to discuss practical approaches to internal democracy and contestation within the ruling party. It was learnt that the party chieftains would converge on Abuja at the annual conference of APC Press Corps scheduled for December 18, 2020, with the theme: ‘Contestation, A Veritable Process in Deepening Democratic Norms, Values and Culture: The APC Story’. Also, the governors expected at the 2020 conference include the Chairman, Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee, who is the Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni; his Kogi State counterpart, Yahaya Bello, and Governor Gombe State, Abubakar Mohammed Inuwa. A statement issued yesterday by the Chairman, Conference Planning Committee, Mr. Babatunde Ayeni, said Lawan is expected to deliver a keynote address, while Wase will give an insight on the efforts of the National Assembly on the ongoing constitutional review assignment. Also, the Director-General of Progressives Governors Forum (PGF), Dr. Salihu Lukman, will present a paper on the constitutional review extensively. Ayeni said: “The APC Press Corps, a platform for accredited representatives of all the major media organisations covering the activities of the APC, gathers annually to assess its activities in the outgoing year with the aim of improving on its programmes and designing better templates to discharge professional responsibilities. “The aim is also to further deepen its cordial relationship with the rank and file of the ruling party for a better coverage of party policies and programmes, thereby helping to deepen our democracy.” He added that the Minister of Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva; Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Muhammed; the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Mr. Garba Shehu; Senator Rochas Okorocha, and a member of the APC Caretaker Committee, the Mrs. Stella Okotete, are among other prominent party leaders that would attend the event to present goodwill messages.