The organisers of Higher Institution Football League (HiFL), PACE Sports and Entertainment Marketing Ltd (PSEM) have confirmed that one of the world’s largest skincare manufacturer, Beiersdorf, has joined the league of sponsors of Nigeria’s largest private collegiate football competition. With the sponsorship deal, Beiersdorf Nigeria is set to sponsor HiFL with one of its foremost brands, NIVEA Men for the 2021 season. Announcing the sponsorship, Beiersdorf’s Managing Director, Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Harrison, opined, “Nivea Men is thrilled to come on board as HiFL’s Official Men’s Grooming Partner in 2021. The partnership will enable us to support the nurturing of football talent among Nigerian youth while connecting with our young future consumers through a sport the whole country is passionate about. “We look forward to the upcoming collaboration and an exciting sporting football league in 2021.” The latest collaboration further allows PACE and Nigeria University Games Association (NUGA) to remain committed to partnerships that will ensure the sustainability of the HiFL games as one of the most veritable platforms for grassroots football development in Nigeria and Africa as a whole. Director, PACE Sports, Sola Fijabi emphasized the partnership with NIVEA Men signals the commencement of the greater expectations and excitements in the next season as the world opens up after a trying year. While nurturing things important to peoples’ lives, the personal care giant is set to continue to align its CARE initiatives towards supporting HiFL to achieve its objectives in sports especially collegiate sport in Nigeria. The brand continues to push for a broader collaboration towards taking actions that care for everyone even beyond its own business. “We are glad to have NIVEA Men join our growing family of partners and sponsors alike who are committed to developing the Nigerian youths and further developing the collegiate game in the land as they have seen how HiFL is growing over the past years since inception. “NIVEA Men keyed into the opportunity to be part of the HiFL success story by associating their brand with the strides we are taking to improve collegiate sports while contributing to sports development in Nigeria”, Fijabi remarked. UNICAL Malabites of the University of Calabar are defending champions after lifting the 2019 edition while UAM Tillers of the University of Agriculture, Makurdi won the inaugural tournament in 2018. The 2020 edition did not hold however due to the Covid-19 restrictions with organisers introducing the HiFL Masterclass Series and E-Games instead while playing safe from home.