Peter Uzoho The federal government has assured investors in the nation’s power industry that it was doing everything possible to address all issues surrounding the implementation of a cost-reflective tariff in the country. The government also said it was making progressive with efforts at providing Nigerians with effective and efficient electricity service delivery. The Minister of State for Labour, Mr. Festus Keyamo, gave the assurance recently when he led the Ad-hoc Committee on Cost-Reflective Review on a facility tour of Momas Electricity Meters Manufacturing Company’s (MEMMCOL) factory in Mowe, Ogun State.
The team also comprised representatives of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC), distribution companies Discos and captains of industry. The minister promised to engage with all the stakeholders in the power sector to ensure that all contending issues in the industry were resolved.
The Keyamo-led delegation, however, commended efforts being made by MEMMCOL towards growing the power sector through modern technology, which will enhance effective and efficient development in the sector. Kayamo said: “Our team is making a facility tour to MOMAS to have first-hand information on the company’s capacity and capability in bridging the metering gaps.
“We are focusing on addressing all the issues surrounding implementations of cost-reflective tariff in the power sector.
“MOMAS has the capacity of metering the entire country if given the support. The company can also meet national expectations on metering. “With what we saw here today, we are convinced that MOMAS has what it takes to drive the sector to better ends.”
In his remarks, the Chairman of MOMAS, Mr. Kola Balogun, lauded the federal government delegations for deeming it fit to inspect the company’s metering factory and training school and the powerful investment done in the company. Balogun reaffirmed the company’s capacity and capability to bridge the metering gaps in the country, adding that the company also has the capacity to deploy meters massively across the country.
He said: “We have been advised by the delegation on what we needed to put right in the metering code to suit both the purposes of the Discos and also to meet consumers’ need. “We have the capacity to address metering supply locally. We have also developed mix grid methodology that will address sub stations’ system challenges.
“We can design and also have a lot of customisations built with Discos’ and consumers’ specifications which are sustainable.” He announced that the company also celebrated its 25th anniversary widely, explaining that the 25 years existence of the company was full of ups and downs.
“But today, we are grateful to God for his sustaining and supporting us to tell our story positively,” he said.