It is the end of a glorious era in Fidelity Bank, and the start of something expectedly better. Ushering in the new wave—in the person of Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe—former Fidelity CEO, Nnamdi Okonkwo, has sounded the gong to the expectations of customers, Board of Directors, and all stakeholders: which includes bigger and brighter prospects for Fidelity Bank. Essentially raising a toast of gratitude and congratulations to Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) stockbrokers at a recent virtual meeting, Nnamdi Okonkwo formally introduced his successor, Mrs. Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe, to all and sundry. Artfully listing his accomplishments since he took the CEO chair in 2014 (especially how Fidelity raised ₦30 billion local bond and $400 million Eurobond in 2015 and 2017, respectively), Okonkwo presented the roadmap for the bank’s continued successes and attainment of its goals. In the same spirit of drive and innovation that he led Fidelity Bank to greater heights, Okonkwo obviously expects Onyeali-Ikpe to push the bank’s targets and accomplishments even higher. And this is something she can do, all things considering. Although five executive directors have been appointed as part of the new era, all eyes really are on the soon-to-be (starting January 1st, 2021) MD/CEO, Onyeali-Ikpe. Internet search engines are rife with queries on who she is, what qualifies her to take over from a celebrated banker and accomplished corporate leader like Nnamdi Okonkwo, and more and more. Quite simply, Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe ranks on the A-list of corporate administrators. She has been in the Fidelity Bank spotlight since 2015 while gravitating the Lagos and Southwestern directorates towards the frontlines. With over 30 years of banking experience, and nothing short of a stellar performance while she served under Standard Chartered Bank, Zenith Bank, and Citizens International Bank, Onyeali-Ikpe is a round peg in a round hole. Not to mention her corporate versatility in the banking sector (corporate banking, investment banking, commercial banking, and treasury, especially) and others (oil and gas, manufacturing and exports, aviation, and real estate). She is literally a round peg. As a side note, Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe is one of a handful of women at the apex of the banking industry. Thus, many-varied eyes are on her and Fidelity Bank. To emulate or not to emulate, that is the question.