By Kemi Olaitan The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, chapter, yesterday dissociated itself from a purported resumption calendar released by the institution Registrar, Mr. Kayode Ogunleye, stating that members of the union are still on indefinite strike until the federal government meets the demands of the union. A memo from the office of the registrar on behalf of the Vice Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Michael Olufisayo Ologunde, said the Senate has executively approved the amended academic calendar for the 2019/2020 academic session putting the resumption of 100 level students for December 9, 2020 while harmattan semester examination is expected to commence for 100 level students on December 14, 2020, and end on December 23, 2020, with the rain semester examinations for all students beginning on January 4, 2021. But the union, in a statement signed by its Chairman, Dr. Biodun Olaniran, and made available to THISDAY yesterday, said the academic staff members of the institution are solidly involved in the ongoing nationwide ASUU strike, and will not betray the struggle to get a better public university and welfare system for its members. Olaniran called on parents not to allow their wards to waste scarce resources in coming to school which is yet to resume, insisting that members of the union would only go back to work on the directive of the national leadership of ASUU. He stated further that the national leadership of the union would announce officially to the public when the strike is suspended, noting that it is not the duty of the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, to assume that role. The ASUU boss maintained that due to the strike, no academic activities would hold within the university, including the conduct of examination. According to him, “Our union is in receipt of 2019/2020 amended academic calendar released by the vice chancellor through the office of the registrar. The ASUU of LAUTECH wishes to dissociate itself from the said memo. This is against the principles of our Union, and we wish to inform the public that our chapter is actively participating and also in full support of the ongoing national struggle. “We therefore urge parents and students to note that our members are not in position to conduct any academic activities, including the conduct of examinations.”