Vows to tackle banditry By Francis Sardauna The Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, has promised that there won’t be a repeat of the abduction of school children in Katsina State. The IG also vowed to tackle the prevailing banditry and kidnapping afflicting farming communities in Katsina State and other parts of the country. He said the recent abduction of over 300 school boys of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, Katsina would be the last in the state. The students were kidnapped after gunmen attacked the school on December 11. They were later released on December 17. Bello Matawalle, governor of Zamfara, had said the state was able to secure the release of the abducted schoolboys through the help of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) and repentant bandits. Adamu, who spoke in Katsina yesterday, after a closed-meeting with top police officers, including those in charge of tactical operations, insisted that the abduction of the schoolboys would never occur again. The three-hour meeting, which took place at the state police headquarters, was attended by Governor Aminu Masari’s Special Adviser on security, Mr. Ibrahim Katsina and the Chairman of the state branch of MACBAN, Alhaji Manir Atiku, amongst other top security officers. The IG explained that meeting was aimed at restrategising and coming up with tactics that will not give bandits rooms to unleash mayhem on innocent citizens of the state. “The recent Kankara incident was unfortunate. I am in Katsina to ensure that such an incident will and shall never happen again,” the IG said. “We are in Katsina today to ensure that the state is crime-free. Internal security is the job of the police. We should never give an opportunity to criminals to operate and we have resolved not to allow either bandits or any other criminals anytime to operate either in the morning, afternoon, or at night. “That is why we are liaising with our partners including security agencies and other stakeholders like the Miyyetti Allah, not to allow bandits and other criminals to operate.” Present at the meeting were Ibrahim Katsina, special adviser to the governor of Katsina state on security, Manir Atiku, chairman of the state branch of MACBAN, and other stakeholders. He said: “The recent Kankara incident was unfortunate.Iam in Katsina to ensure that such an incident will and shall never happen again. We are in Katsina today to ensure that the state is crime free. “Internal security is the job of the police .We should never give opportunity to criminals to operate and we have resolved not to allow either bandits or any other criminals anytime to operate either in the morning, afternoon or at night. “That is why we are liaising with our partners including security agencies and other stakeholders like the Miyyetti Allah ,not to allow bandits and other criminals to operate.”