by Bennett Oghifo This year’s edition of the Nigeria Auto Journalists Association (NAJA) Training/Capacity Building programme holds today Saturday, December 12, 2020 at the Golden Tulip Hotel Essential, located on airport road, Lagos. The NAJA training workshop is an annual training programme, organised for practicing auto journalists on trends in the automotive industry. Members of the association belong to reputable print, electronic and online media outfits across the country. Despite this year’s coronavirus pandemic, which affected businesses, this 2020 NAJA event is being supported by Coscharis Motors Plc., Stallion Automobile group, Massilia Motors Limited and Cars45 Limited, among others. Two papers will be presented; ‘’The Role of Nigeria’s Automotive Journalists Amid COVID-19 Era’ to be delivered by Dr. Oscah Odiboh; a lecturer at Convenant University Otta, Ogun State. The second paper, which is line with the digital migration in present day journalism, is titled; ‘Utilising Social Media Tools in News Reportage By Journalists’’, to be presented by Yusuf Aweda Jimoh, a microsoft Certified Technology Specialist, Network and Software Engineer Expected at the event to give key note addresses are Dr. Aliyu Jelani, Director-General, National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC) and Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, Corps Marshal, Federal Roads Safety Corps (FRSC). According to the Chairman of NAJA, Mike Ochonma, the one-day training programme is expected to enrich and expand the knowledge of journalists. ‘’Journalism is taking a new dimension in the face of digital migration, making it imperative for reporters to have analytical mind and be well-informed in the beats that they cover.” The first and second editions of the capacity building workshop was held in 2016 and 2017 and Ford Motors South Africa (FMCSA), in collaboration with Coscharis Motors; its local franchisee were the lead sponsors. Nissan Motors South Africa was the lead sponsor of the 2018 edition. They are represented by Stallion Motors in Nigeria.