Duro Ikhazuagbe
The. winner of the 2020/21 Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) scheduled to kick off on December 27 is to smile to the bank with a cool N75million prize money. The League Management Company (LMC) who are the organizers of the Nigerian topflight league, announced yesterday that the first runner up team is to also get N50million while the third team in the final NPFL standing will get N35million. Chairman of the LMC, Shehu Dikko said yesterday that participating clubs in the NPFL have been assured of a robust revenue distribution with the minimum guaranteed revenue/payment from the LMC-Redstrike Partnership to ensure commercial stability, operations, sustainability and success of the league. The LMC Chairman noted that the partnership “will also guarantee other stakeholders of NPFL, including match officials and services providers of a much improved and, or sustained indemnity and professional remuneration as part of the measures to improve standards across the football league industry value chain”. Continuing, Dikko declared that “on the back of the LMC-Redstrike partnership, the NPFL will now see the return of performance incentive payments to NPFL participating clubs such as, Basic Award (Guaranteed payments for participation), Technical/Performance Award (payments earned based on milestones achieved by clubs), Merit Award (Prize Monies distributed to clubs based on final position on the league table at the end of season) and Parachute Payments (to support clubs relegated from the NPFL in the previous season)”. The LMC Boss said other programmes and branding strategies to increase the excitement value of the league will be unveiled in due course. These includes, the return of bonuses to clubs for Away Wins, Away Draws, getting more than 5000 fans for home matches, featuring U-18 Youth Players, Stadium maintenance support etc. “There’s no doubt that exciting times lie ahead for all football lovers in Nigeria who have long yearned to have matches and activities of NPFL made readily available to them by streaming and broadcast on other platforms, including traditional TV”, Dikko remarked. He said the LMC is assuring millions of football fans in Nigeria that their patience will very soon be rewarded with a repackaged NPFL, whose exciting football matches and activities they can view and follow anytime and anywhere on the NPFL.TVPlatform. Dikko assured stakeholders that there will be strict compliance with the clubs licensing regulations among other regulatory requirements resulted in the delay in commencing the league as envisaged.