Digify Africa has announced plan to graduate 80 young Nigerian graduate with superb digital skills. According to a statement, on October 5, the current cohorts graduating this Friday commenced their digital transformation journey. “It has definitely been an exciting time of learning, growth and digital transformation as participants were increased to 40 per cohort, and simultaneous lectures took place for all 80 participants through 100 per cent online learning and participants joined daily from 17 different Nigerian cities. Digify Africa, a non-profit organisation with support from Facebook equipping young graduates with skills to contribute to the growth of Nigeria’s digital economy. “Supported by Facebook, DigifyPRO Initiative of Digify Africa is an eight-week intensive digital skills training programme including paid internship supported by Facebook. The programme equips smart youngsters with skills to enter the digital workplace. “Due to the global COVID-19 pandemic, all cohorts in 2020 have fully online classes. Participants were trained on practical hands-on digital experience and covered topics such as: digital marketing; agency processes; client services; account management, analytics and measurement; social media management; brand reputation management; content creation; email marketing; user Interface & experience; paid advertising; Facebook marketing; Instagram marketing; search engine optimisation; personal branding; and various other technical plus soft skills,” the statement added. The graduation ceremony will be fully virtually, the Programme Director for Nigeria, Florence Olumodimu explained. “Despite being 100 percent online classes we were able to achieve the same intensity and results we would normally achieve if it was an offline cohort. “The major difference there was no physical interactions for the participants. But with the online training we were able to admit participants from different cities and states (17 different cities during these two cohorts) which would not have been possible in a physical class. “During the course of the training, we also had weeks our participants connected with Kenya and South Africa in joint sessions and we had experts from different agencies plus different countries having sessions ending with weekly live briefs for participants,” she added.