The newly elected President of the Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria, Mr. Ikechukwu Nnamani, speaks about his plans to achieve better service quality for subscribers, among other initiatives. Emma Okonji presents the excerpts: You were recently elected as the next President of the Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON). How do you intend to run the telecoms association in the next two years? It was a good day for the association because the election that brought me to the helm of affairs of ATCON, was well conducted and it was peaceful and transparent. First, I must commend our immediate past president, Mr. Olusola Teniola for a great job he has done in taking the association to the current level. A lot has been achieved in the last four years when he was at the helm of affairs. The new Exco will continue with the great work that the former exco did. Most of us in the new exco were members of the former exco and we operated in various capacities, which means there is legacy knowledge of the operations of the association. We also have some new members among the recently elected executives and so they will inject new ideas into the association and make it stronger. Having been elected, what are the key agenda you are bringing on board? The new exco will address three main areas: strengthening the secretariat for more efficient service delivery; strengthening the membership for growth and strengthening the telecom and ICT space for better service delivery to the subscribers. We will modernise the operations of the secretariat to be in line with present day realities for efficient and cost effective operations. The COVId-19 pandemic has revealed that organisations should be structured for remote operations when it becomes impossible to work in a physical office location. We will be upgrading our secretariat infrastructure to ensure operations and meetings can happen remotely including future Annual General Meetings (AGMs) if needed. We will also ensure the secretariat staff are well trained and equipped to be able to handle the changing and progressive nature of membership and the industry in general. About two years ago, we developed a financial sustainability plan for the association and so far the implementation of the plan has made the association financially stable and in a good place financially. We will continue with the implementation of the plan. We will place a lot of emphasis on signing up new membership for the association and also ensure we have events and activities that promote the businesses of our members. We will engage with the various regulatory and government agencies both at the state and federal level to ensure our members’ needs are met and that there is enabling environment for the efficient and cost effective delivery of telecoms and ICT services in the country. Our engagement will be firm but not confrontational to ensure success. We will also encourage corroborations among our members so that there will be harmony in the industry and progress for all stakeholders. We will be introducing some new membership benefit packages to ensure our members get the best value for their involvement in the association. Our engagement will ensure that new classes of service are introduced to the subscribers at affordable rates while not compromising on the quality of service Can you tell us more about ATCON and its roles in the Nigerian telecoms landscape? ATCON is the pre