*Says record from 27 Borno LGAs shows Buhari performed better than Jonathan in handling security challenges By Michael Olugbode Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, has said no one should be blinded by recent killing of 43 rice farmers to pass judgment on the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari to checkmate Boko Haram insurgency. He said records of security situation in the troubled state had shown that they were better off security wise under the Muhammadu Buhari administration than during President Goodluck Jonathan administration. He said records from 2011 in the 27 local government areas of the state showed clearly that President Muhammadu Buhari had performed better in handling of Borno’s security challenges. The governor made this declaration on Sunday, while addressing northern elders from the Arewa Consultative Forum in Maiduguri. The ACF led by the chairman of its board of trustees, Ambassador Shehu Malami, and the forum’s executive chairman, Chief Audu Ogbeh, had paid a condolence visit to the government and people of Borno State over the killing of 43 rice farmers in Zabarmari, a farming community in Jere local government area of Borno. Zulum said. “From statewide statistics on affairs in the 27 local government areas since 2011, the fact is that despite the recent happenings in Borno State, the security situation in Borno State and indeed that of the entire North East Sub-region is still far better under Buhari, and this is based on records. “For instance, unlike the years before Buhari when a number of local governments were no-go areas, we now have citizens led by our traditional rulers, safely back to Bama, Gwoza, Askira-Uba, Dikwa, Ngala, Monguno, Kukawa, Damboa, Konduga, Mafa, all of which no one could visit, not to talk of living there. “Our emirs were all in exile. Today, Bama is coming back to live and so is Askira-Uba, Damboa, Gwoza and others. Life is even returning to normal in Baga. This was impossible before Buhari. In fact was not possible to move few kilometers out of Maiduguri. Insurgents were so bold to attack and take over military facilities like the army barrack at Monguno, Bama, Giwa Barrack and Multinational Joint Task Force Headquarters at Baga to mention just a few. “There were daily attack, bomb blasts in many parts of Maiduguri, the most populated part of the state but all of these have stopped under Buhari. These are the records and no one can dispute these records.” He however said it was human nature to be more concerned about current realities than comparing the past with the present. He said: “The insurgents by their nature, always want to attract publicity which is very strategic for terror propaganda, so they resorted to attacking our communities and running away and of course this worries us.”
The governor said the people would remain optimistic and keep doing their part in shared efforts to find sustainable peace in the state. Zulum thanked the elders and all groups who paid similar visits to Borno in show of solidarity and support to citizens with humanitarian needs.