By Chuks Okocha The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus and entire members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party have commended the Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle, for his role towards the release of the over 340 students of the Government Science Secondary School in Kankara in Katsina State. The NWC expressed the commendation of the party to the governor when they visited him in Abuja During the visit, Secondus commended the governor for helping to solve the mystery over the kidnap of the students and his efforts over the students’ eventual release. According to Secondus, “We as a party are proud of your efforts in national security. We commend your efforts in the rescue of the Kankara students when all hopes had appeared lost. Issues of security is beyond party affiliations and that is why the PDP doesn’t politicise security and hunger.” Secondus told the governor that the party was proud of his efforts in ensuring security in the state and urged him to step up his efforts to wipe out banditry in the state. The NWC further expressed support to the governor on his efforts in the development of the state. The party assured the governor of its unflinching support as he continues to confront the challenges of governing the state. It also commended the governor for the success of the party in the Bakura Constituency during the last election, saying “Zamfara is PDP and will continue to be PDP.” It said that Governor Matawalle is permanently in Zamfara State, facing the challenges of insecurity and banditry, unlike his predecessors who lived and governed the state from Abuja. Gunmen on motorcycles had attacked the school on December 11 and abducted the students a few hours after President Muhammadu Buhari arrived in Katsina for a week-long private visit. Katsina State Governor, Aminu Masari, however, announced the release of the 344 schoolboys six days after their abduction by bandits. The students were freed at a forest in Zamfara State. Matawalle had revealed the role he played in the release of 344 students. Speaking with journalists in Abuja on Tuesday, the governor said the Kankara schoolboys were released in his state before they were moved to Katsina. He said repentant bandits were contacted, who in turn, played a major role in the negotiations and the eventual release of the boys. He said: “As soon as the (Kankara) boys were kidnapped, we stepped in. We reached out to repentant bandits in the state. Negotiations were made and that was how they were released. The boys were released in Zamfara before they were moved to Katsina.”