By Adedayo Akinwale The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State has described as ‘sanity restored’, the Court of Appeal’s judgement, Tuesday that sacked Igo Aguma as the Caretaker Committee Chairman of the party in the state. The party also expressed lack of confidence in the Rivers State Independent Electoral Commission (RSIEC) to conduct free, fair and credible local government elections in the state. The Caretaker Chairman of the party, Isaac Abott-Ogbobula, stated yesterday, while addressing reporters in Port Harcourt. Ogbobula said the judgement sends a signal to the lower courts to stop meddling into internal affairs of a political party. “We commend the Justices of the Court of Appeal for the very erudite judgment delivered yesterday, particularly for restoring sanity and more significantly, sending a clear message to lower courts to desist from unnecessarily meddling in the internal affairs of political parties and stop usurping the constitutionally vested powers and functions of party organs,” he said. Ogbobula urged all members of the Party to come together, join hands in rebuilding the party and focus on achieving a common goal, adding that the APC in Rivers is now ready to give the state government a fair and formidable opposition, particularly in fighting against bad policies. “We call on all genuine members of the APC in Rivers State to join hands with us in moving the Party forward. We cannot afford to be distracted anymore by comedians and mercantile politicians conniving with the Rivers State Government towards removing attention from the huge misgovernance taking place in the state. “We must start to seriously interrogate the policies, programmes and activities of the State Governor and invariably the application of state resources. Rivers people must be made to consciously resist a situation where one man runs the show in the state; in charge of supplies, contracts, projects etc., while others wallow in penury and poverty. “It is unacceptable that more than six years as Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike cannot point to 10 young men of Rivers origin who have been economically empowered to compete in the business world. “It is most unfortunate that rather than the governor priding himself in terms of human capital development, he is instead always boasting of how he will cripple the All Progressives Congress in the state, and you can imagine the humongous funds he pushes in that direction to massage his ego,” Ogbobula said. The party Chairman further stated that the APC would henceforth participate in every transparent electoral process in the state, and ensure victory in all of its outings. He, however, expressed doubts over the credibility of RSIEC, now headed by Justice George Omereji (rtd). “Recall that the very same Justice Omereji who had earlier given the controversial judgement against the APC, installing Aguma as Chairman of the party in Rivers State) has been appointed as the Chairman of RSIEC, a so called “independent umpire” in local government elections. Let me sound it loud and clear that, APC Rivers State Chapter will participate in every credibly organised election and will win convincingly. “On the converse, the Rivers State Chapter of the APC will not be used to lend credence to any charade or jamboree in the name of election. We are not unmindful of the shameless employment of state institutions, especially some judicial officers to procure injunctions against the APC in the state but, we promise that henceforth, it will not be business as usual,” Ogbobula said.