Floyd Mayweather was seen coaching Richardson Hitchins even though the former has a ‘super-exhibition fight’ with Logan Paul in February. Mayweather announced earlier this month that he will face YouTuber Paul in a pay-per-view fight taking place on February 20 next year. However, the American has been influenced to take up coaching following the death of his uncle and former trainer Roger in March of this year and was seen taking 2016 Olympian Hitchins on the pads. Super-lightweight contender Hitchins represented Team USA at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games and has a 12-0 record following his tenth round victory over Argenis Mendiz earlier this month. Mayeweather also trains young American talents Gervonta Davis and Devin Haney in his Las Vegas gym. Retired legend Mayweather, who has a 50-0 undefeated record, has not fought in just under two years and just once since he knocked out Conor McGregor in 2017 in another exhibition bout. Mayweather then took part in a second exhibition fight since retirement from professional boxing against Japanese kickboxer Tenshin Nasukawa in Tokyo. The New Year’s Eve fight in 2018 saw the American win within one round, which saw Tenshin’s camp throw the towel in after an explosive start by Mayweather. It is believed the 43-year-old made £6.7million from that one round in Japan, which added to the £223million he earned from the McGregor exhibition fight back in 2017. Fellow American Paul, 25, fought fellow YouTuber KSI twice in the past three years, the first resulting in a draw before the Briton claimed a rematch victory back in 2019. His fights with KSI in 2018 and 2019 were also popular as the influence of YouTuber boxing continues to grow in the sport. The first contest was an immediate hit and became the largest non-professional boxing fights of all-time with 1.3million pay-per-views worldwide, a figure which included 800,000 live purchases. The second fight in 2019 saw both fighters receive around $900,000 each, though the figures are believed to be higher for both KSI and Logan Paul.