•Zangon-Kataf erupts, 7 killed, houses razed
•Traditional ruler of Ankpa abducted John Shiklam in Kaduna, Francis Sardauna in Katsina and Ibrahim Oyewale in Lokoja Gunmen on Thursday night attacked the convoy of the Emir of Kaura Namoda in Zamfara State, Alhaji Sanusi Muhammad, killing eight people. In Kaduna State, seven people were killed by gunmen in Gora Gan community, Zangon-Kataf Local Government area of the state, while security operatives in Kogi State have declared a manhunt for the kidnappers of the traditional ruler of Ankpa, the Ejeh of Ankpa, Shuaibu Usman, who was abducted yesterday. The gunmen attacked the Emir of Kaura Namoda on his way home from Abuja, killing three of his police security details and five other people. According to an eyewitness, who escaped during the attack, “The Emir’s convoy was ambushed by the suspected gunmen along Zaria-Funtua highway. The Emir was coming back to Zamfara from Abuja in the midnight in a convoy of official vehicles. “Eight occupants of the Toyota Hilux, including the driver, were all shot dead by the gunmen. The Emir escaped unhurt. Three policemen were among those killed,” said the eyewitness. Usman Nagogo, the Zamfara State Commissioner of Police confirmed the incident yesterday.
Spokesman of the Katsina State Police Command, Gambo Isah, also confirmed that the hoodlums attacked the paramount ruler along Funtua-Gusau Road. Isah, a superintendent of police, said: “On 18/12/2020 at about 0030hrs, the convoy of Emir of Kauran Namoda, Alhaji Muhammad Sunusi while on transit from Abuja to Zamfara State was attacked at Funtua, along Funtua – Gusau road. “The policemen in the front escort vehicle engaged the bandits in a gun duel and as a result of which the driver of the vehicle was shot at and lost control of the vehicle and summersaulted off the road and fell into a nearby pond.” He added: “Subsequently, a team of policemen, led by DPO Funtua, arrived the scene, rescued the Emir and recovered eight dead bodies, comprising three policemen and five palace guards. Investigation is ongoing.”
There has been a spike in the activities of bandits in the North-west recently. 7 Killed, Houses Razed in Zangon-Kataf The rising spate of violence was also experienced in Kaduna State where seven people were killed by gunmen in Gora Gan community, Zangon-Kataf Local Government Area of the state. One person was also injured, while 13 houses and two shops were burnt by the bandits.
The incident occurred on Thursday night when the gunmen invaded the community and opened fire on residents.
It was learnt that the bandits surrounded the community and were shooting sporadically as residents scampered for safety. The Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan confirmed the incident in a statement yesterday in Kaduna.
“The security agencies carrying out internal security operations in parts of Southern Kaduna State have reported that Gora Gan community in Zangon Kataf Local Government came under attack on Thursday night,” Aruwan said. According to him, “Security agencies, comprising the military and police, reported that Gora Gan community was attacked on several fronts, including the market area and houses stretching towards the Tudun Wada area of Gora Gan.” +The statement said troops repelled the attackers, stabilised the general area and retrieved corpses of seven persons. The statement gave the names of those killed as Peter Akaho 70, Ayuba Steven Sheyin, 67, Jummai Ayuba,55, Ishaya Joel 35, Yakubu Saviour, 14, Ayuba Goodluck, 11 and Patience Ayuba, 6.
According to the commissioner, troops of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), Special Forces of the Defence Headquarters and police personnel are trailing the attackers.
He said Governor Nasir El-Rufai condemned the killings of innocent citizens, describing it as barbaric and inhuman. The statement added that the governor directed the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), to take inventory of the damage done and provide relief materials with immediate effect. Ejeh of Ankpa Abducted In a related development, the Kogi State Commissioner of Police, CP Ayuba Ede has disclosed that operatives of the State Command have been trailing the suspected kidnappers of the Ejeh of Ankpa, Shuaibu Usman.
Ede said that the traditional ruler was abducted when he went to mosque for morning prayers. The Commissioner of Police explained that the Kogi State police command had swung into action by deploying detectives in a bid to rescuing the traditional ruler.
He stated that the Police had cordoned all entry and exit points into the state, with a view to rescuing the traditional ruler. According to CP Ede, the kidnappers had laid ambushed at the mosque, and zoomed off immediately with the traditional ruler to an unknown destination. It was gathered that, the abductors of the monarch are yet to make any contact with the family.