By Onuminya Innocent The Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Sokoto State Council, Isa Shuni, has commended the state government for embarking on people oriented projects. Shuni gave the commendation on Monday when he led some members of the union on tour of some projects embarked upon by Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal. He disclosed that the projects tallied with the yearning and aspirations of the residents of the state and encouraged the governor to do more. “As a watch dog, we come here to see what the governor is doing with the public funds and not to antagonise him but to work as partners in progress,” he stated. Shuni further stated that during the electioneering, many promises were made to the people, “so we came here to see things for ourselves and what is on ground attest that the governor is fulfilling his campaign promises to the people of the state”. At the Sokoto State University Teaching Hospital (SSUTH), Kasarawa, the project consultant, Mr. Kabiru Umar Yabo, who spoke on behalf of Calder Construction Nigeria Ltd said the contract was awarded at the sum of N6.8 billion to be completed within 30 months. Yabo explained that the project comprises 22 structures, two site fence and administrative block. He further disclosed that the work is at 30 per cent completion, stressing that the company will finish and deliver the projects before the timeframe. On his part, the site engineer, Usman Muhammad, stated that the firm engages a minimum of 1,000 labourers daily. At the time of visit, most structures have reached advanced stage, while others are in excavating stages. Yabo reiterated that after completion, the Teaching Hospital would provide tertiary health service delivery to the people of the state, Nigeria and also be used as a training centre for medical students for the state university. The team also visited the construction site of Government Girls Science Academy, Kasarawa, where the work is at 40 per cent completion stage. Addressing journalists, the Managing Director of Calder Construction Nigeria Ltd, Mr. Kabir Mahmoud Sarki, said the contract was awarded at the sum of N2.4 billion. Sarki further explained that the school, which is pure boarding, has 36 classrooms, four laboratories, an e-library, administrative block, staff quarters and hostels. He added that the work, which has a contract space of 18 months, will be completed before the stipulated time.