By John Shiklam in Kaduna As part of measures to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Kaduna state government has directed civil servants below Grade Level 14 to work from home as from Monday. Kaduna state is among the states with high rate of COVID-19 infections.
A statement issued on Sunday by the Special Adviser to Governor Nasir El-Rufai on Media and Communication, Mr Muyiwa Adekeye, said the governor had signed and authorised new regulations to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state with effect from Monday. The statement said it was mandatory for residents to wear facemasks outside the house.
It said organisations and individuals that allowed people into their premises had the responsibility to enforce the ‘no mask, no entry mandate.’ The statement also warned against large gatherings and urged businesses to provide thermometers for temperature checks, and sanitisers or hand-washing equipment and physical distancing measures within all facilities. “Places of worship must enforce facemasks, provide sanitisers and ensure physical distancing. The number of worshippers will be capped. Congregational worship should not exceed one hour,’’ the statement said.
Transport operators have also been directed to reduce the number of passengers to not more than two passengers per row and not more than 50% of capacity. ‘’Supermarkets and providers of personal services such as hair dressing and barbing salons can remain open, but service providers and customers must use facemasks and limit the number of persons they admit and serve at any time”, Adekeye said. The statement said hotels can remain open, but their restaurants and bars can offer only room service, while events centres, night clubs, gyms and bars and lounges are to close until further notice. ‘’The state government calls for collective action with citizens to curb the infections without having to resort to extraordinary measures like a lockdown. The government believes that mass compliance with Covid-19 prevention protocols should suffice to help reduce the rate of infections,’’ Adekeye said.