Chuks Okocha in Abuja Former Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki and the Nigerian Guild of Editors yesterday described the late Chairman of Leadership Newspapers, Mr. Sam Nda Isaiah, as a patriot and committed nationalist who saw every Nigerian as his brother and sister and therefore related to them based on equality, justice and fairness. Nda-Isaiah died last Friday in Abuja after a brief illness. He was aged 58. Saraki in a statement signed on his behalf by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, added that the late publisher was a man who believed that the challenges the country was going through at the moment were temporary setback that could be overcome if the leaders continued to sustain the unity of the country and work to further entrench democracy. He expressed sadness that Nda-Isaiah died at a time when his incisive analysis of the Nigerian issues would help both the leaders and members of the public to have correct perspective and positive approaches to how to move the nation forward. “Sam Nda-Isaiah was an engaging person. He was never tired of discussing Nigeria anytime we had the opportunity to exchange ideas. I particularly found his thoughts about the place of the North Central Zone, to which we both belong, in the present and future of Nigerian politics and economy very encouraging and particularly inspiring. “Coincidentally, the last time I saw him late last month was when he was part of the North Central Peoples Forum (NCPF) delegation which visited me at home in Abuja. He was full of life and energy and his eloquence resonated across the hall when he spoke. “I join his family, friends and associates across the nation and beyond to mourn his passing. However, we take solace in the fact that he lived an extraordinary life while he was here with us. He will be sorely missed,” he stated. The former Senate president further prayed to Almighty Allah to grant the family of the deceased the fortitude to bear the loss and that the legacies he left behind should continue to thrive. Also, the Nigerian Guild of Editors expressed shock over the demise of Nda-Isaiah, In a statement signed by its President, Mustapha Isah and General Secretary, Mary Atolagbe, it said Nigerian media industry has indeed lost a thorough-bred professional, who made invaluable contributions to the development of journalism Africa. The body of Editors expressed its condolences to his immediate family, staff and management of Leadership Newspapers, as well as the government and people of Niger State. “NGE is shocked at his sudden death because the late Nda-Isaiah attended a meeting of the Newspaper Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria (NPAN) in Lagos last Tuesday, where the Chairman of Media Trust Limited, Malam Kabiru Yusuf, was elected as the new President.” “Nda-Isaiah was a popular columnist who later forayed into politics, even though he trained as a Pharmacist. “The Guild remembers him as a great believer in the Nigerian project, who made immense contributions to the Nigerian media industry. “May his soul rest in peace.”