Barcelona will face Paris St Germain and former striker Neymar while title holders Bayern Munich are up against Italy’s Lazio in the last 16 of the Champions League after UEFA’s draw held on Monday. The clash of Lionel Messi and Barca with last year’s runners-up PSG is a repeat of their remarkable meeting at the same stage in 2017 when Barca overcame a 4-0 first leg loss to beat the French club 6-1 in Spain with Neymar scoring twice for the Catalans. “We know them (PSG) well, they’ve got some exceptional players. Paris want to fight for the Champions League, last year they came very close to winning it and they want to go one better this time round, but we’ve got something to say about that,” said Guillermo Amor, Barcelona’s Director of Institutional Relations. Bayern will start as favourites in their tie but will be wary of Simone Inzaghi’s Lazio team who have reached this stage for the first time in 20 years. “Lazio are an uncomfortable opponent, you saw that in the group,” said Bayern Sporting Director, Hasan Salihamidzic. “It is always uncomfortable against Italian teams.” Premier League champions Liverpool will play last year’s semifinalists RB Leipzig creating a match-up between Germany’s most highly rated young coach Julian Nagelsmann of Leipzig with Liverpool’s Juergen Klopp, the country’s No 1 coach. Liverpool are unbeaten in their last ten matches against German teams in all European competitions, a run going back to 2002. 13-times European champions Real Madrid face Serie A club Atalanta, who reached the quarterfinals in their first Champions League campaign last season. Real have won ten of their last eleven games with Italian clubs. Atletico Madrid will face Chelsea in a game which could include the return of striker Diego Costa to Stamford Bridge. Manchester City will take on Borussia Moenchengladbach, who are in the last 16 for the first time in the Champions League era. Italian champions Juventus will face Porto, a game where Cristiano Ronaldo will return to his homeland Portugal. The first legs will take place on February 16-17 while the return legs will take place on March 16-17. In the Europa draw, Premier League heavyweights Arsenal and Manchester United have been handed tricky draws in the Europa League round of 32. After United were knocked out of the Champions League last week their reward for finishing third in their group is an intriguing tie against Spanish side Real Sociedad. Arsenal will look to put their Premier League woes behind them when they take on Portuguese giants Benfica. Tottenham Hotspur, on the other hand, were handed a relatively kind-looking tie against Austrian side Wolfsberger. And the same is true of Leicester, who face Czech team Slavia Prague in their first ever Europa League last-32 tie. CHAMPIONS LEAGUE (Fixtures) Barcelona vs PSG
Real Madrid vs Atalanta
M’Gladbach vs Man City
Lazio vs B’Munich
Atletico vs Chelsea
Leipzig vs Liverpool
Porto vs Juventus
Sevilla vs Dortmund EUROPA LEAGUE (Round of 32) Wolfsberger v Tottenham Dy’Kyiv v Club Brugge Sociedad v Man Utd Benfica v Arsenal Red Star v AC Milan Antwerp v Rangers Sla’Prague v Leicester Salzburg v Villarreal Braga v Roma Krasnodar v Di’Zagreb Young Boys v Leverkusen Molde v Hoffenheim Granada v Napoli