Our Correspondents Former President of the Senate, Senator David Mark, National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu, National Chairman of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus and the Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives have urged Nigerians to be their brothers’ keeper in spite of the socio-economic and security challenges and let peace reign. Mark in a goodwill message, issued by his media adviser, Paul Mumeh, canvassed for religious tolerance between and amongst faithful in a manner that gives every adherent freedom and liberty to worship. He advised religious leaders across board to preach the message of peace, unity and good neighbourliness in order to make the country a safe haven. On his part, Tinubu urged Nigerians to let kindness reign as they celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ. Tinubu, in a Christmas message yesterday in Lagos, also beseeched all to place in their hearts and minds the commitment to be more tolerant and less judgmental of their fellow being. The APC leader urged all to help those who are without instead of blaming people for the situation in which they find themselves. He said: “Give those who currently lack kindness not criticism; give them bread and meat, not bitterness and despair.” Tinubu, while congratulating Christians, explained that Christmas is a day to be thankful for as Jesus Christ provided a precious gift unto us. He urged all to act in the spirit and teachings of Jesus. The former governor of Lagos urged Nigerians to celebrate in moderation and adhere to all COVID-19 protocols to limit spread of the disease. “I must beseech you to forgo such large gatherings this year for the sake of our collective health.” Tinubu noted that in normal times, Christmas offered Nigerians of all faiths an opportunity to gather with family and friends to celebrate the birth of Jesus. Also, Secondus called on Nigerians to turn to God and seek His mercy for solution to our challenges. He noted that in truth all o have fallen short before God and a period like Christmas provides ample opportunity to return to him in deep supplications. In a statement from his media office signed by Ike Abonyi, Secondus noted that the birth of the messiah which akk celebrate at this time opens the window for all sinners to commune with God for restitution of the lost glory as a nation. “This season is another opportunity to increase our acts of kindness, touch the less privileged in our society, appreciate God for the outgoing year and pray for a more prosperous new year. “Therefore, this Christmas means so much more than just mere merriment. It is a veritable avenue to extend love to the underprivileged who are disadvantaged in several ways.” Omo-Agege Preaches Tolerance The Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, has urged Nigerians to use the occasion of the Yuletide celebrations to renew their commitment to the promotion of values of tolerance, brotherhood and unity among all groups in the country. In his Christmas message, Senator Omo-Agege also called on Christians to imbibe the virtues of humility and love which are the hallmarks of the birth of Jesus Christ. The Christmas celebration, he noted, offers Nigerians the opportunity to reflect on God’s love and compassion for man as epitomised in the gift of His only begotten son for man’s salvation. Akeredolu Warns Residents against COVID-19 Protocols As Nigerians celebrates Christmas and the New Year festivities, Ondo State Governor, Mr Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, yesterday reminded the people of the state of the provision of the state Dangerous Infectious Diseases (COVID-19), Emergency Prevention Regulation” with stipulated punishment for any breach. The Section 18 of the law, signed on 31st March, 2020. stipulates a fine of N20,000 or a jail term of three months or both as penalty for failure to comply with COVID-19 preventive measures. The governor, in his address to the people of the state on the ocassion of Christmas and New Year festivities, advised them to celebrate safely and responsibly so as not to further increase the spread of the COVID-19 infection in the state. Better Days Ahead, Diri Assures Bayelsans Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has charged citizens and residents of the state not to be discouraged by the effects of COVID-19 and the attendant economic challenges. Diri, in his Christmas message to people of the state, expressed the optimism that despite the challenges of the moment, there are better days ahead. He urged the people to reflect on the message of the birth of Jesus, which is about love, peace and hope. Ugwuanyi Salutes Christians Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has called on Nigerians to utilise the significance of Christmas to offer sustained prayers for God’s divine intervention and abiding grace for the nation to surmount its various challenges, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and the second economic recession in five years. In his message, Ugwuanyi felicitated with Christians, the good people of Enugu State and indeed all Nigerians, wishing them Merry Christmas and a prosperous New Year. The governor urged Nigerians not to lose faith in God in the face of adversity, but to remain committed to the Good News that Jesus Christ was born to bring salvation to mankind. Obaseki Charges Nigerians to Show Love The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has urged Edo people and Nigerians in general to show love and reflect on the teachings of Jesus Christ, as they mark the Christmas celebration. In a statement, the governor said, “On behalf of the government of Edo State, I celebrate with all Edo people, at home and in the Diaspora, as we mark Christmas. “Christmas season is an auspicious occasion to show love and reflect on the life of Jesus Christ, whose birth we are commemorating. I urge you to accommodate one another and take personal responsibility to protect yourself and others amid the festivities in the wake of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic,” he said. Gombe Gov Urges Christians to Pray for Peace The Governor of Gombe State, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, has felicitated with the Christian community in the state as they join other faithful all over the world to mark this year’s Christmas, urging them to use the period to pray for peace, security and prosperity of the state as well as an end to the global pandemic of COVID-19. The governor in a goodwill message issued by Ismaila Uba Misilli, his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, charged Christians and the entire people of the state to rededicate themselves and remain steadfast in prayers against all the challenges bedevilling the state and humanity in general. Ihedioha Urges Love, Sober Reflection, Tolerance Former Governor of Imo State, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, has described Christmas as a season of love, appreciation, selflessness and tolerance towards one another. In a message to mark the 2020 Christmas, he reminded Christians and indeed all persons of goodwill that the commemoration of the birth of Jesus Christ which the season represents, offers a unique opportunity to extend love to families, friends, neighbours and indeed all Nigerians from all works of life. He harped on the need to eschew tendencies that promote hate, disunity and intolerance, noting that the need for sober reflection during Christmas is a timely opportunity for citizens to reflect on their lives and the state of the nation. Abiodun Preaches Moderation, Thanksgiving As Christians across the world celebrate the Christmas and New Year season, Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has enjoined Nigerians to make moderation and thanksgiving their watchwords during and beyond the festive period. The governor, in a goodwill message to the residents of the state, conveyed through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Kunle Somorin, maintained that as the Year 2020 had been a most challenging one, those fortunate enough to survive the vicissitudes of the year, especially the COVID-19 pandemic, must return glory to God and celebrate with moderation. Okowa Lists Ways Nigeria can be Peaceful, United As Christians across the world celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ, Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, yesterday stated that Nigeria as well as the international community can be at peace if Christians practiced the virtues that Christ preached while on earth. In a Christmas message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika, in Asaba yesterday, the governor said the virtues of Christ include peaceful coexistence, love, tolerance and sacrifice. He noted that Christmas is a celebration to mark the birth anniversary of “our Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ,” and therefore, called on Christians to strive and emulate wholly the ways of Christ. Okowa stated that as true followers of Christ, Nigerians and the world must eschew communal and religious clashes, armed robbery, kidnapping, militancy, banditry, terrorism and other vices plaguing the country and other parts of the world. AbdulRazaq Calls for Prayers to Overcome Nigeria’s Challenges Kwara State Governor, Alhaji AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has urged residents of the state to pray and work for peace, harmony and development of the state and the country at large. AbdulRazaq, in a statement issued in Ilorin yesterday and signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Rafiu Ajakaye, congratulated the Christian community in the state on the Christmas festive season. He prayed the Almighty God to make it a remarkably joyful one for all. AbdulRazaq also urged all the residents of the to do their bits to flatten the curve of the COVID-19 pandemic” He reassured citizens of his commitment to continue to be fair to all in the discharge of his duties. Ekweremadu Preaches Love at Christmas Former Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, has called on Nigerians to imbibe the attitude of love, which he described as the core essence and message of Christmas. Ekweremadu stated this yesterday during the 2020 edition of “Christmas With Widows”, an annual outreach to widows in the Enugu West Senatorial District by the Senator and his wife, Dr. Nwanneka Ekweremadu. At the event that featured the presentation of gifts and support to 300 widows drawn from the senatorial district, the lawmaker stressed that in the absence of a functional social security system, it was important for Nigerians to be their brothers’ keeper. He said: “On the occasion of Christmas, we must not lose sight of the crux of the season, which is God’s love for mankind in sending his only begotten son for our salvation.” Adeola Asks Christians to Renew Their Faith in Jesus The Chairman of Senate Committee on Finance, Senator Solomon Adeola, has called on all Christians and Nigerians in general to use the occasion of the Christmas celebration to renew their faith in Jesus Christ and abide by all precautionary measures against the rampaging COVID-19 global pandemic. Adeola, in a Christmas message to felicitate with Nigeria Christendom said Christmas symbolises the celebration of the birth of a new dawn for the salvation of souls for all humanity especially for the Christian believers. Glo Urges Nigerians to Share Love at Christmas Leading telecommunications solutions provider, Globacom, has congratulated Nigerians on the occasion of Christmas, charging them to spread love, joy and peace which are the focal points of the teachings of Jesus Christ. In a goodwill message released in Lagos yesterday, Globacom charged Christians to be exemplars of the true essence of Christmas, as demonstrated by the love of God for mankind through the birth of Jesus Christ. “Christ came to the world in human form to show the love of God towards mankind. His love and concern for humanity are shown by the sacrifice He made by leading man back to God. Jesus made himself a perfect example of the values of love, humility, kindness, righteous living and fruits of the spirit which would guarantee eternal life”, Globacom said.