Mary Nnah Top Nollywood celebrity, Tayo Sobola, popularly called Sotayo Gaga, has unveiled the biggest e-commerce platform in the country, Hicolumn, with matchless qualities that connects consumers to choice stores, anytime, anywhere, thus bringing their usual places of shopping close to their neighbourhood. The unveiling of the ground-breaking e-commerce platform took place recently in Lagos and held in grand style with a drone delivery of Hicolumn package to the top-notch celebrity indicating the swift and cutting-edge delivery service behind the e-commerce Tech. Highlights of the event includes free shopping vouchers to fans of the celebrity and the online shopping she made, which was delivered swiftly before 20 minutes, an attestation of Hicolumn’s uniqueness. The screen idol expressed delight that shopping has been made easier than before with Hicolumn’s entrant into Nigeria’s online market. The award winning superstar said the platform is a mobile app that comprises the Hicolumn Customer, Merchant and Delivery Apps that are all connected together and work as one Enterprise Resources Programme, to ensure customers’ usual places of shopping are made available for them, for real comfort and convenience. Sobola, who is also an entrepreneur and a philanthropist enlightened merchants, store owners, consumers and the public on what e-commerce Tech entails. She posits that it offers stores, merchants, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) with existing and verifiable businesses, the opportunity to become active participants in the e-commerce ecosystem within 30 minutes after downloading the mobile app, which is absolutely free of any registration cost. It also gives them the opportunity of leveraging the internet to serve or sell to their existing and prospective customers, anytime, anywhere, without physically visiting the shops. She said it also ensures prompt execution of delivery activities within 20 minutes, with the same quality, same price and faster than physically present at the stores. “Delivery of purchased goods online in 20 minutes is quite interesting, it is one of the best things that have happened to the online market in this country, quite exhilarating,” Sobola said. The celebrity said merchants and store owners can become super strong and active online with the Hicolumn e-commerce Tech, especially in this period of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic when shopping is mostly done online for fear of being infected. She pointed out that the e-store is set to create over 100,000 jobs before the end of 2021, and will bring about large-scale youth empowerment as well as significant increase in the patronage of indigenous goods.