* Text Box: Presents PDP flag to Dickson The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has said that Nigeria is falling apart and fast becoming a failed state. Secondus made the comment yesterday, while speaking at a PDP Mega Rally for Bayelsa West senatorial district at Sagbama, Bayelsa State.. Secondus who presented the party’s flag to its senatorial candidate, Mr. Henry Seriake Dickson, said that the PDP believes in a united and strong Nigeria and remained the only party that can rescue the country from the grip of the failing APC. Secondus lamented that everything, including the economy and security sectors are falling apart. He stressed that the only chance of redemption opened to the citizenry was to put credible people in the National Assembly who would be able to make laws in defence of the people. Secondus led the PDP national and state leadership in Bayelsa to observe a minute silence in honour of the 43 rice farmers that were gruesomely murdered by Boko Haram terrorists on Saturday. He said, “Today, as we stand here to speak to you, Nigeria is fast becoming a failed state. The only rescue is to put quality people in the National Assembly who can go there to make laws in defence of the people. “Everywhere has broken down. Security and economy are breaking down. The government of APC has failed. You can imagine a bag of rice that was N18,000 is now N30,000 and the Dollar, which was exchanging for between N180 and N230 is now N500. “I can tell you that this is a most trying period for our nation. The country is gradually falling apart. We believe in a United Nigeria, we in the PDP will rescue the country from the grip of APC. Charity must begin from home. You must come out to vote. “Finally, I want to advise our Commander-in-Chief that the country is falling apart. He should not make things worse because if he denies the people their votes, he will make the situation worse” He urged the President to show his capacity and expertise in Borno and Katsina states. Secondus said that APC would be voted out of power come 2023 as it happened in the US, and urged INEC to ensure that the people’s votes were made to count. He urged the people of Sagbama/Ekeremor to vote for the former governor, Dickson in the forthcoming Senatorial bye election rescheduled for December 5, 2020. He said that Chief Dickson performed exceedingly well as the first two-term Governor of Bayelsa State and as an effective representative of the people who left behind his great footprint in the National Assembly. He commended Dickson for the successful completion of the Bayelsa International Airport ,which he described as a gateway to the rescue of the country. Secondus who later presented the party’s flag to the party’s candidate in Bayelsa Central, Hon. Moses Cleopas, said that PDP will also win the Bayelsa Central senatorial by- election in Lagos, Imo, Plateau, and Cross Rivers. The PDP chairman who warned that the nation’s image had been tainted by the CNN report on the killing of protesters, urged military to restrict their activities to their areas of specialisation and allow the people to exercise the right to vote.