•El-Rufai on self-isolation, to undergo test today Segun James The Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has tested positive for Covid-19, Commissioner for Health, Professor Akin Abayomi, has said. According to him, “following Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s exposure to a confirmed case of COVID-19, a PCR test performed yesterday, the 11th of December, has confirmed that he has indeed been infected with the virus, which is supported by mild symptoms and fatigue typical of a mild case of COVID.” Abayomi explained that the governor has started receiving treatment and is being closely monitored at home by the very experienced state COVID-19 clinical team from IDH Yaba. He added: “Mr. Sanwo-Olu is doing well on treatment and rest and we are confident that he will recover quickly and clear the virus. We are seeing slightly increasing number of COVID-19 positive cases in clusters in Lagos and all residents and visitors should strictly adhere to the prescribed advisories of safe distancing, mask-wearing, good hand and respiratory hygiene and avoidance of unnecessary or large gatherings. “The festive season is likely to create the opportunity for the virus to spread if we are not compliant with the regulations established by the Presidential Task Force (PTF) for inbound travellers and the festive season celebrations. All inbound travellers must be COVID-19 negative by PCR before they board a flight to Nigeria and must self-isolate on arrival and undergo a pre-booked test on Day Seven of arrival in Nigeria. “Lagosians should keep celebrations to a minimum and be observant and responsible in their interactions. The significant gains achieved to date in containing COVID-19 in Lagos, which has allowed us to carefully reopen the economy, must not be reversed.
“No one is immune to this virus and it is certainly still circulating in the community. Please, join me in praying and wishing the Incident Commander of the Lagos State COVID-19 response, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, a speedy recovery so he can return to normal duties as soon as possible.
“I will be keeping the public informed regularly of Mr. Governor’s recovery and wellbeing.” El-Rufai on Self-Isolation, to undergo test today Also, Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, yesterday disclosed that he had gone into self-isolation after some family members and senior government officials around him tested positive for COVID-19. El-Rufai, in a broadcast on Saturday, disclosed that a COVID-19 test will be conducted on him on Sunday. He said: “I have been notified of more positive Covid-19 test results of persons close to me, including an immediate family member and senior officials of the Kaduna state government. “I am, therefore, in self-isolation and hope to be tested by Sunday. This is purely a precautionary move that complies with the standard Covid-19 protocols. There will be another update when the test results are ready.” He urged Kaduna residents to observe and abide by the preventive protocols against Covid-19, especially wearing facemasks, avoiding large gatherings, practising physical distancing and washing their hands regularly. Kaduna state has recorded an increase in the cases of COVID-19 infections, with the latest infection figures put at 117.