By Laleye Dipo The Senator representing Niger East Senatorial district of Niger state Alhaji Sani Musa on Wednesday said no less than two people have been killed and 30 others abducted in series of bandits attacks in the senatorial zone in the last one week. Musa also said that some 5000 people had been rendered homeless as a result of the incidents during the period. The Senator gave the statistic in a statement in which he chronicled the incidents and its negative impact on the people in his constituency made available to newsmen in Minna. “In one week, armed men in their hundreds have unleashed mayhem and terror on innocent citizens in their peaceful villages, forcing them to evacuate their homes into homelessness,” Musa said in the statement titled ‘Niger Security: One Week of Sleeplessness”. The federal lawmaker recall that in one of such attacks “armed men numbering over fifty were reported to have stormed, at separate times, Garin Gabbas and Yakila communities in Rafi local government, where they abducted the District Head of Gunna, Ibrahim Abdulhameed, a youth leader of the All Progressives Congress and two other persons” In addition, he said on the same day “Chukuba and Kuchi communities in Shiroro local government area were attacked by bandits, in which a Christian cleric Reverend Jeremiah Ibrahim and a man thought to be a vigilante security personnel were killed, while at least eight persons were kidnapped” Musa said “In fact, the last one week could be described as hell on earth for the people of Niger East who can no longer sleep both in the day and night for fear of the unknown. They have been rendered helpless even as they continue to starve due to the destruction of their property and inability to engage in what they know how to do best – farming “Enough of the bloodletting and carnage. The lives of innocent citizens cannot continue to be sacrificed on the altar of blood-thirsty vampires who are bent on destroying the peace of our land” He therefore reiterated his call for a lasting solution to be proffered to the security problem in ” Niger state and indeed the entire northern region of the country “I once again lend my voice to the voices of my distinguished colleagues in the Senate and Honourable members of the House of Representatives as well as other meaningful Nigerians to call for the revamp of the security architecture in the country. Mr President should not hesitate to ensure that this is done, and indeed now”. Musa however commend the “gallantry of men and officers of the Force for their zeal towards rooting out those bad elements that have infiltrated into our communities and urged them to continue to do their best”. He also called for patience from the villagers assuring that very soon the bandits will be overcome and peace will return to the communities.