Chuks Okocha, Udora Orizu in Abuja and Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola have expressed his sadness at the news of the death of Professor Femi Odekunle on Tuesday. Lawan described Odekunle’s death as a great loss to the academic community and to Nigeria. The Senate President said Odekunle, the first Professor of Criminology in Nigeria, was a reputable scholar and an academic giant who imparted knowledge to his numerous students and served his country with his expertise in a discipline in which he was an authority. Lawan recalled his immense contributions as a member of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC). He condoled with the family of the departed professor. On his part, Gbajabiamila in a statement said with Odekunle’s death, Nigeria has lost one of her finest scholars who toiled to give his best to the country’s education sector. Describing the late professor as one intellectual Nigerian whose value to the country could not be quantified, the Speaker said the late professor lived a fulfilled life worthy of emulation by upcoming generation. Gbajabiamila sent his condolences to the Odekunle family and the government and people of Osun State over the loss. Also, Governor Oyetola in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, Oyetola, said he received news of the demise of the Osun-born professor of Criminology with huge shock, adding that his death was an immense loss to his family and the nation. He described the deceased as a man of great intellect, insight and impeccable character, just as he also acknowledged his commitment and contributions to the anti-corruption crusade of President Buhari’s administration. Governor Oyetola condoled with Prof. Odekunle’s immediate family, President Buhari, his friends, associates and colleagues on PACAC. He also prayed God Almighty to repose the soul of the deceased and grant his family and loved ones the strength to bear his demise. Also, Governor Oyetola in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, Oyetola, said he received news of the demise of the Osun-born professor of Criminology with huge shock, adding that his death was an immense loss to his family and the nation. He described the deceased as a man of great intellect, insight and impeccable character, just as he also acknowledged his commitment and contributions to the anti-corruption crusade of President Buhari’s administration. Governor Oyetola condoled with Prof. Odekunle’s immediate family, President Buhari, his friends, associates and colleagues on PACAC. He also prayed God Almighty to repose the soul of the deceased and grant his family and loved ones the strength to bear his demise.