Montego Upstream Services, a natural resources company in Nigeria, has donated a 500KVA electricity distribution transformer to one of its host communities in Delta State. The oil and gas service providing firm also awarded scholarships to two indigenes of the Igbeku Community in the Sapele area of the state. According to a statement, the recipients, Miss Joy Idegbe and Mr. Miracle Enughure, were both students in tertiary institutions within the country. During the recent event to commission the 500KVA transformer at Igbeku Community, Amukpe, in Sapele Local Government Area of Delta State, an area previously without electricity supply, the Chief Executive Officer of the company, Mr. Owuze Nwuche, said the gesture was part of the company’s numerous projects across their operational areas, to improve the standard of living among indigenes of their host communities. Nwuche asserted that being an indigene of the Niger Delta himself, at Montego Upstream Services it was important to the company to not only carry out its business operations in a socially responsible manner, but it was at the heart of the company to ensure that it positively impacts the communities in which it operates. He assured continued growth in synergy between the company and its host communities. Responding to the scholarship award which he had just received, Enughure, a student of the University of Port Harcourt expressed joy, stating that due to financial difficulty it had been stressful for his family to sponsor his higher education, but with the scholarship, it would ease that burden and he couldn’t adequately express his gratitude. Idegbe, the second scholarship award recipient echoed Enughure’s excitement. She expressed her joy, noting that the scholarship will go a long way in helping her realize her dream of graduating with a degree in Microbiology. Also speaking on behalf of Igbeku Community, the Community Liaison Officer, Mr. Godwin Kebuge and the Community Light Committee Chairman, Mr. Felix Ipemu both expressed pleasure at the manner in which Montego Upstream Services Ltd. has shown support to the community via by providing the electricity transformer, the scholarship award, among other developmental and commendable projects the company was carrying out within the community.