Chuks Okocha in Abuja The Niger Delta governors will this week meet to take a position on the appointment of a sole administrator for the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) A source close to one of the South-south governors informed THISDAY that the governors in the geopolitical zone are not happy with the appointment of a sole administrator for the commission. The source at the weekend said the governors would at the proposed meeting bare their minds in the issue. Many Nigerians had condemned the appointment of a sole administrator for the NDDC, saying the development is not constitutional. Also, last Thursday, the pioneer Director General of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors’ Forum, Osaro Onaiwu, condemned the appointment of a sole administrator for the commission. Onaiwu had described the development as an aberration, adding that such development will give room for few persons to manipulate the commission. Calling on the governors of the Niger Delta region to take a position on this development, Onaiwu had said that this is the time to appoint a governing council for the commission. He further urged the governor to take action, as keeping quiet is not the solution to this bare-face aberration. He had insisted that the appointment of a sole administrator is not for the interest of the region, adding that the council must be constituted to give the commission a sense of direction. Onaiwu had also noted that the reason why the commission was established in the first place is defeated if notable leadership is not put in place, insisting that the people from the region, who are supposed to benefit from the establishment are not enjoying that because of lack of accountability. He had said: “This development should be properly looked into because appointing a sole administrator is dictatorship in action. “This is the time the governors from this region should take a position because this bare-face aberration should not be allowed to continue. “Appointing a sole administrator is depriving the people a good representation as the appointee will not work for the interest of the people.”