By Tolulope Ibukunoluwa The Chairmen of the Community Development Committees and Youth Presidents in Ekeremor Local Government Area have reaffirmed support for Henry Seriake Dickson’s Senatorial bid for the Bayelsa West District. The CDC Chairmen and the Youth President said Dickson was the most qualified with the requisite experience and contacts required to promote the interest of the district, the state and indeed the Ijaw nation in the National Assembly. The different groups which spoke during solidarity visits to the former Governor at his Opolo, Yenagoa residence yesterday, said that the former governor should have returned unopposed going by his experience and record òf performance. Spokespersons of the groups, Philip Enieyekebi, Chairman of CDC Ndoro, and his Ekeremor counterpart, Hon Fiemotonghan Otuma and the Youth President, Agori, Akiki Ezoukumoh, were unanimous in their position that Dickson is the only candidate they know in the forthcoming senatorial contest in the zone. They stressed that Chief Dickson was more exposed to national politics and in a better position to promote the interest of the district apart from the arrangement on zoning that favors him. They assured that the election would be peaceful and urged the electorate to turn out enmasse to vote without fear of molestation and also defend their votes come December 5, 2020. “Everybody that is truly sincere knows that you are in a better position to articulate the needs of the Ijaw nation having played crucial roles at different levels of government. “We the CDC Chairmen and our youth Presidents are not aware of any other candidate contesting the Senatorial seat. It is on record that you and your party, the PDP, have consulted widely in our communities and we hold the firm view that you will be returned as our Senator,” They said. In his response, the former governor thanked the CDC Chairmen and the youth groups for their sustained support and reaffirming their endorsement of his candidature as the right person for the Senatorial slot. He urged the youth to give the deserved priority to the need to ensure that the election is violence free in their communities. Dickson commended the leaders and members of the groups for insisting on the power sharing arrangement between the two local government areas making up the district which Favour a Sagbama to produce the next senator. He assured them of his unflinching commitment to the cause of the people and indeed the Ijaw nation, at the upper chamber of the National Assembly if elected.