The Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) has been described as the ‘best parastatal’ in the country under the leadership of the corporation’s outgoing Managing Director/Chief Executive, Alhaji Umaru Ibrahim. The former Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Dr. Mahmoud Isa-Dutse said this during a recent valedictory luncheon organised by the Alumni Association of the National Institute (AANI) in honour of the outgoing MD of NDIC whose tenure ends this month. At the event, Ibrahim was praised by colleagues, friends and well-wishers for his leadership qualities and achievements which included overseeing the corporation’s critical failure resolution interventions in the banking sector that saved thousands of depositors from the loss of their funds to navigating the corporation’s growth to take its prestigious position on the international scene as the Chair of the African Regional Committee of the International Association of Deposit Insurers (IADI). Isa-Dutse said during Umaru Ibrahim’s tenure, the corporation was outstanding in the implementation of its mandate towards contributing to the stability of the financial system. He recalled that during his time as Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, the NDIC remained the most compliant in terms of Corporate Governance and excellence in service delivery as opposed to other agencies that were constantly grappling with numerous internal disputes and challenges. The AANI National President, former Inspector General of Police M. D. Abubakar (rtd) who described the NDIC boss as a senior brother and a true Nigerian, said Ibrahim’s leadership qualities of discipline, dedication and passion towards excellence translated to significant contributions to the Nation’s development. He added that the association singled out the MD/CE NDIC to recognise his contributions to AANI and celebrate his achievements and legacy during his thirty-one years of service in the corporation and especially during the last ten years as the MD/CE of the NDIC.