The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye yesterday predicted that Naira would, again, regain its strength among the league of currencies. Adeboye, a 78-year-old preacher of holiness, also prayed that God would intervene in Nigeria’s financial sector and change the hearts of policymakers who deliberately devalued the currency. He predicted Naira’s resurgence at RCCG’s Annual Holy Ghost Congress under the theme, “It is time to fly” held at Kilometre 42, RCCG International Headquarters, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway.
He shared a testimony on how he was in need of N5, 000 when the church kick-started its inaugural annual convention some years ago. At that time, according to the cleric, Naira was powerful then and N5, 000 was a lot of money and that the church needed instant financial breakthrough. Adeboye said: “During our first convention at the Redemption Camp, I was bold. I asked everybody to come, free feeding. They came, I ran out of money. My wife came to me in the morning, Sir, we need N5, 000.
“Naira was powerful then. It will become powerful again. Those who are deliberately devaluing our naira, before tomorrow morning, God will intervene. “So, my wife said we needed N5, 000. I asked her, ‘Do you need it today or later?’ She said today. I did not have a kobo. I told her to go. I cried to God that I needed a breakthrough. It was not long after that, one man drove in, he was not a member of the church. “He asked what was going on and we said we are having a convention. And then, he put his hands in his pocket and brought out an envelope with some money.
“I then called on my wife and asked her, ‘How much did you say you need?”
Recently, Naira had fallen to its weakest level in six weeks in informal trading as Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) interventions in the official window failed to meet demand. At the parallel market, Naira changed hands for N470 per dollar, the lowest since September 29, according to abokifx.com, a website that collates street rates in Lagos.
Naira closed at 382.10 per dollar on the spot market, where the central bank sells limited amounts of the greenback bank to importers.