By Adedayo Akinwale The House of Representatives has called on the federal government to direct security operatives to immediately crack down on the rampaging criminals attacking Dutsin-Ma-Kurfi federal constituency of Kastina State. It also urged the Ministry of Defence to station a military base in Marke and Makera of Dutsin-Ma Local Government Area as well as provide one Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC). The position of the House was sequel to the adoption of a motion on the need to tackle the incessant killings, kidnappings, banditry and armed robbery in Dutsin-Ma-Kurfi federal constituency of Kastina State, moved by Hon. Armayau Abdulkadir. Moving the motion, the lawmaker decried the ongoing attacks on Wakaji, Gago, Unguwar Bera, Dogon Ruwa, Kurechin Dutsi, Ruwan Dorowa and Muri villages of Dutsin-Ma Local Government Area and Kudewa, Lambo, Fandogari, Karki, Yarrumfa, Baganau Tashar Baruwa, Sarkadi, Takyambu, Daram, Garin Minister, Kurfi Town and Yar’randa in Kurfi Local Government Area of Katsina State by armed robbers, kidnappers and cattle rustlers resulting in loss of lives, properties and farm produce worth millions of naira. Abdulkadir said: “The magnitude of attacks on residents of the area has reached an alarming stage as the perpetrators of the criminal acts have continued to perpetrate similar acts in various communities within the constituency, including the killing of men, women and children, while many people are now refugees, having been internally displaced from their homes due to the onslaught by the armed bandits.” He warned that any further delay by the federal government in curtailing the on-going atrocities would result in colossal loss of lives, properties and farmlands and also paralyse the economic and commercial activities of the area. The lawmaker stressed that the fundamental duty of any government is the protection and preservation of lives and property of its citizens by being responsive in curtailing attacks on them. The House, therefore, urged “the federal government to direct security operatives to immediately crack down on the rampaging criminals attacking Dutsin-Ma-Kurfi Federal Constituency”. It further urged the National Refugees Commission to set up an IDP camp in Dutsin-Ma and Kurfi Local Government Areas of Katsina State. The House also urged the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to urgently provide relief materials for the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs).