Three Nigerian tech entrepreneurs, Kazeem Lawal, Babatunde Jegede and Gbenga Solademi have introduced a health-based app, Axocheck, designed to support preventive care in the Nigeria healthcare system. The newly introduced app is a subscription-based one that provides concierge healthcare professionals that carry out in-home basic health checks on users. Understanding the pain and anxiety of constantly having to worry about the health of loved ones especially older people and busy professionals, the trio decided to do something about it. Speaking with the co-founder and CEO, KazeemLawal, he said preventive medicine is the way to go so as to get in front of health issues before it becomes life-threatening as when issues are caught early, the cost to remediate is cheaper and the prognosis is much more likely to be better. On starting the app, he said they’ve always had the intention to make a change in Nigeria by leveraging technology and with the combined years of experience in various fields and industries from the three of them, they came up with this health-based solution to further contribute to the growth being experienced in the local health care sector. Kazeem added that since the advent of COVID-19 and the need for people to stay on top of their health, the need for homecare is more important than ever now and the place of remote care in the health care sector has become even much more important. “We have therefore come with a solution that further reduces the need to go to the hospital where there is a high risk of contracting COVID-19. Our highly trained nursing professionals understand the need for safety and would therefore be in the perfect position to carry out health checks to proactively prevent bad medical conditions.” He added that telemedicine is here to stay, as people are becoming more tech savvy and Axocheck as a hybrid e-health solution that provides an in-person visit from a healthcare professional which is backed up with telemedicine capabilities that will be engaged when necessary. He said this hybrid approach is necessary, as the market is not fully matured for a full-fledged telemedicine approach. “We have developed a centralized system were users can get access to their records and can port them to specialists as they need them. The app has a robust backend system that allows us gather user health information privately and safely and can be accessed by the user and by extension, the users’ hospital with permission from the user. On what sets the apart as a healthcare solution provider, he said the entire experience is hybrid in nature as technology is backed up with great health care professionals. “Second, health care professionals on the platform use the app to complete the entire process. Third, certified medical doctors review notes from the field while providing feedback and recommendations to clients plus easy access to history/record for patients can be ported as needed. Finally, we truly embody prevention being better than cure as we seek to get ahead of health problems that users may experience.” On how the app would help improve access to quality healthcare, Kazeem said they understand the many challenges in the Nigerian healthcare sector; one of the many being low doctor-patient ratio which is why they are using many available highly skilled and trained nurses as a stopgap to catching health issues before they become huge medical problems. ‘When we get in front of these health issues, we would automatically reduce the need for many doctors in the short term while we continue to grow the doctor base as a nation. One of the most exciting things about the Axocheck option is that it’s very affordable. We want Nigerians in the diaspora to take advantage of this solution as a means of keeping tabs on the health of their loved ones back home. The app is available on Apple and Google playstores. “The current life expectancy in Nigeria is less than 55 years for men and 57 for women. As such, we have an opportunity to get in front of the many heath issues which impacts us as a nation taking advantage of the Axocheck Health check App. The technology is so easy to use and was intentionally designed in such a way that any and everyone would be able to use it,” he said.