Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that the recent defections to the ruling party had shown that the party is now the choice for Nigerians and progressive-minded partisans. The Secretary of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the party, Sen. John Akpanudoedehe, in a statement issued yesterday said the mass defections to the APC was a signpost of the democratic and progressive environment the Committee has created in the APC by accommodating all interests and ensuring peace, unity, fairness, equity, justice, inclusion and entrenching internal democracy. He welcomed the federal lawmakers of the House of Representatives who recently defected from some opposition political parties to the APC. Akpanudoedehe stated: “Evidently, the APC under the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee has been repositioned as the party of choice for Nigerians and progressive-minded partisans. “The mass defections to the APC is a signpost of the democratic and progressive environment the committee has created in the APC by accommodating all interests and ensuring peace, unity, fairness, equity, justice, inclusion and entrenching internal democracy. “While we are confident that the new entrants will contribute their quota to the growth of the APC and the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, the committee assures that in line with the resolution of the last virtual Emergency APC National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting, waivers will be granted to those who have joined, or want to join the APC.” Akpanudoedehe also thanked the party stakeholders for their continued support as the committee achieves its renewed mandate to reposition the party and a bring true peace and reconciliation across party ranks. Recall that on Wednesday, Hon. Aliyu Yako, representing Kiru/Babeji Federal Constituency of Kano State and Hon. Danjuma Shiddi representing Ibi/Wukari Federal Constituency of Taraba State decamped respectively from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) to the APC. On Thursday, Hon. Tajudeen Adefisoye representing Idanre/Ifedore Federal constituency in Ondo State and Hon. Sam Onuigbo representing Ikwuano/Umuahia federal constituency of Abia State announced at the House plenary their respective defections from the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and PDP to the APC.