*  Ifijeh, Ojehomon to drive the vision to reality, says Ilaboya Owan West Youth Foundation has announced the appointment of Brand Ambassadors to help drive the vision of giving youths in the local government a better and secured future. This announcement is coming few days to the launch of the foundation. Chairman of Owan West Local Government Area of Edo State, Hon Frank Ilaboya, who announced the coming on board of Mr Victor Ifijeh, Managing Director of The Nation Newspaper and 1984 Olympic Mascot bearer, Omololu Ojehomon as Brand Ambassadors of the project, said he was glad and excited the duo agreed to join forces with other well meaning sons and daughters of the local government “to drive this process to reality. “Honestly I am very excited to announce the coming on board of great and wonderful personalities of Ifijeh and Ojehomon’s calibre. “We need all hands to be on the deck to sell this product, and the personalities of the duo will no doubt add a lot of value.” He stressed that the roles of the Ambassadors “ is basically to sell the Foundation to the public wherever they are. They will also from time to time hold talk-shop with our youths, discussing life values and the need to be a better person in future. “As individuals that have made positive impact in the society, their presence will serve as a positive influence on the young ones. “For example, for somebody of Ifijeh pedigree to attain the height of Managing Director of one of Nigeria’s best and widest circulating newspapers, The Nation Newspaper, is worthy of emulation. Same with Ojehomon, whose desire is to see the progress of Owan West youths, through education, technology and human capacity building. “In 1984 Ojehomon was crowned the first Miss Olympics Nigeria and was the mascot to the Nigeria Contingent at the Los Angeles Olympics of same year.” “I must say we are blessed to have such high achievers in Owan West, people whose achievements can rub off on the youths. “You need to see the tremendous interest shown by the trustees, which has been a source of pride and a big morale booster to the scheme. “We are glad to have the calibre of the former Inspector General of Police, Solomon Arase, to join other kind hearted and high fliers in their respective fields to design a flourishing future for Owan West Youths.” Other trustees are the immediate past Clerk of the House of Representatives, Deacon Patrick Giwa, whose contributions to community and youths development is infectious, Prof Vincent Ahonkhai, one time Managing Director of GSK, now based in Houston, Texas, a philanthropist per excellence, Dr Uyi Oduwa-Malaka, the immediate past Head of Programmes Management to Edo State Government, erudite and progressive minded, Engineer Samir Skaff, the Managing Director of one of the biggest construction companies in Nigeria and a great lover of Owan West youths and Mrs HailMary Aipoh, a true philanthropist and a lover of youth empowerment based in Abuja. “Others are Mrs Victoria Diejomaoh, one of the best brains in information technology based in Lagos, always ready to share, Mr Moses Ajayi, an easy going business tycoon with a golden heart, Hon Frank Ilaboya, the executive Chairman of Owan West Local Government Area, and our Lord Bishop of Anglican Diocese, Sabongidda Ora, Bishop Augustine Ohilebo, whose vibrancy in the Christiandom is a huge pride in the local government.” The launch of the Foundation comes up on Thursday, December 16, 2020 at its corporate office located at 12, Commercial Road, Sabongidda Ora, Edo State.