David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka First Republic Minister of Aviation, Chief Mbazulike Amaechi, has reassured his commitment to championing the unity of Nigeria. He said he had and would never slack in discussing issues concerning the country, including the unity of Nigeria, especially when the negotiation would guarantee equity and equality, and also quell agitations by parts of the country. Speaking yesterday at his country home in Ukpor, Nnewi South Local Government Area of Anambra State, during a press conference organised by Global Movement for Igbo Presidency (GLOMIP), the elder statesman called for the renegotiation of the unity of Nigeria to ensure equity for all. He said, “Whatever concerns the betterment of Nigeria, I will always take part in it. I’m the only surviving member of our set. “We know how hard we fought to achieve independence for Nigeria, and up till today, I still look forward to a better Nigeria. Whatever concerns Nigeria, I will not take a backseat, that is why I accepted when I was told to be a part of this press conference by GLOMIP. “I am one of those who fought for independence. I suffered incarceration, and apart from being a member of NCNC, I was a member of the Zikist Movement, the radical wing of the party. I have been in prison many times because of the independence of Nigeria and my first imprisonment was at the age of 21. “There is a need to come together and renegotiate the basis of our unity for equity sake. This part of the country (Southeast) has been marginalized for too long. The only renegotiation will quell the agitations by some people in the country.” Earlier, the Leader of GLOMIP, Mr Kennedy Iyere, stressed that Nigeria deserved a better deal than what was presently on the ground. He said, “The solution Nigeria is looking for is with the Igbos, and that someone from the zone needs to be given the chance to fix the country. “The reason for the formation of this group is to drive the Igbo Presidency, and we know that our daddy (Amaechi) will be alive to see it happen in 2023.” Also speaking, former minister of Women’s Affairs, Mrs. Josephine Anenih, explained that what the group was demanding for was not only a president from the Igbo extraction, but that the Igbo man must come from the South-east zone.