By Chiemelie Ezeobi The nationwide infrastructural renewal embarked on by the Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, recently received a boost with the inauguration of two newly renovated accommodation at Sam Ethnan Air Force Base, Ikeja, Lagos. The new accommodation of the two 36 by one Airmen Quarters is just one of series of infrastructural developments aimed at improving both the working and living conditions of NAF personnel in the last five years. The CAS, who was represented by the Air Officer Commanding (AOC), Logistics Command, Air Vice Marshal Lawal Alao, while congratulating the beneficiaries of these accommodation facilities, urged them to use it with all sense of responsibility for optimal performance. He said: “I am delighted to be here with you once again as we commission yet another two newly renovated airmen accommodation for NAF personnel in Lagos. The projects being commissioned is in continuation of this administration’s infrastructural renewal of Sam Ethnan Air Force Base (SEAFB), Ikeja. “We are not unaware of the myriads of accommodation and infrastructural challenges facing SEAFB. Thisis why despite the limited resources available we continue to, on an annual basis, renovate some blocks of airmen accommodation while some are built for the officers. “Similar projects like these are also continually being carried out in all NAF Bases to ensure the provision of decent andconducive accommodation for all our personnel. This is because providing such decent accommodation is one of HQ NAF’s policy thrust. As such, we will not relent until this is fully achieved. “ As this administration continues with infrastructural renewal in all NAF Bases towards the achievement of a decent and conducive environment; I enjoin you all to rededicate yourselves and continue to add value towards making the service more relevant and effective in addressing the current and future security challenges in the country. “As I mentioned earlier on, resources are not readily available to satisfy all our needs as a fighting force. Nevertheless, the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammadu Buhari has continued to ensure that our needs are prioritised.” The boost in personnel welfare has thus ensured efficient and effective service delivery in the NAF.