By Yinka Kolawole The Association of Registrars of Nigerian Universities has elected the Registrar of Federal University, Lafia, Nassarawa State, Dr. Abubakar Mamuda as Chairman with other seven outstanding registrars of other universities as its national executives for a period of two years during its recently organised 15th annual business retreat. Others are Vice-Chairman, Mr. Aminu Bello Mohammed, Kano University of Science and Technology, Wudil; Secretary-General, Dr. Bola Adekola, Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta; Assistant Secretary General, Halima Bala-Mohammed, Modibo Adama University of Technology, Yola; Treasurer, Dr. Alfred Mulade, Nigerian Maritime University, Okerenkoko; Public Relations Officer, Mr. Olukayode Akindele, Redeemer’s University, Ede; Welfare Officer, Mrs. Bibian Nwokwu, Ebonyi State University, Abakaliki; and the immediate past Chairman/Ex-officio, Mr. John Nnabuihe, Federal University of Technology, Owerri. Mamuda was a former Senior Adviser on Poverty Alleviation to the Governor of Bauchi State between 2006 and 2009. He obtained his Doctor of Philosophy degree in Political Economy and Development Studies from University of Abuja in 2006. As a consummate administrator, he attended the University of Salford, Manchester, where he bagged a Master of Science in Human Resources and Development. In addition to an experience that covers various aspects of the registry that spanned over 27 years, he served as the interim chairman of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities, University of Abuja Branch between 2015 and 2016. Reacting to his election, the new chairman thanked the past executives led by Nnabuihe and pledged on behalf of the newly elected leaders to raise the bar of the association. Mamuda promised to take the new assignment with utmost sense of responsibility. Earlier at the annual retreat, Professor Abubakar Rasheed led other three eminent scholars to present papers. They addressed the participants on topics such as from regulator and arbitration to accomplice and victim of conflicts and politics in the Nigerian university system: whither contemporary role of the Registrar by Dr. Idris Jibrin (former Registrar, Federal University, Lafia); the keynote address was delivered by Prof. Attahiru Jega, former INEC Chairman on ‘University Administration under Democratic Rule in Nigeria: Issues, Challenges and the way Forward’, While Prof. Peter Okebukola spoke on ‘Management of Nigerian Universities post-COVID-19: The Roles of Registrars’.