By Kingsley Nwezeh The Department of State Security (DSS) Tuesday issued a security alert over plans by criminal elements to carry out violent attacks on public places during the Yuletide season. A statement issued Tuesday by the agency said the dastardly acts would be executed through the use of explosives, suicide bombing and other dangerous weapons. The statement signed by the Spokesman of DSS, Dr Peter Afunanya, said the objective of the planned attacks was to create a general sense of fear among the people and subsequently undermine the government. “The Department of State Services (DSS) wishes to inform the public about plans by some criminal elements to carry out violent attacks on public places including key and vulnerable points during the yuletide season” “The planned dastardly acts are to be executed through the use of explosives, suicide bombing and other dangerous weapons”, it said. It, therefore, warned those planning to cause chaos and damage to public peace to desist from such as it would stop at nothing to apprehend and bring them to justice. The DSS said “the objective is to create a general sense of fear among the people and subsequently undermine the government. “Against this backdrop, citizens are called upon to be extra vigilant and report strange movements and indeed, all suspicions around them to security and law enforcement agencies”. It said the service was collaborating with other sister agencies to ensure that adequate measures were put in place for protection of lives and property. “To further achieve this purpose, the Service has provided these emergency response numbers 08132222105 and 09030002189 for urgent contacts. “It is also using this opportunity to unveil its interactive website www.dss.gov.ng for public communication support. “Everyone is encouraged to take advantage of these platforms and similar ones provided by related agencies to timely reach and avail them (security agencies) of required information”, it said. “The service advises those planning to cause chaos and damage to public peace to desist from such as it will stop at nothing to apprehend and bring them to justice. “While assuring citizens and residents of their safety during and after the festive periods, the DGSS, Alhaji YM. Bichi, with his management and staff, wishes all, happy celebrations and a prosperous 2021”, it said.