David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka Anambra State government has restated its commitment to ensure delivery of the Awka Millenium City, which has also been described as a millionaire estate before the end of the administration of Governor Willie Obiano. The Managing Director of Anambra State Investment Protection and Promotion Agency, Mr Jide Ikeakor gave the assurance during the N1.747billion contract signing, for the construction of internal roads of 2nd Phase of the project. Ikeakor said, “This project is a PPP (Public Private Partnership) between Anambra government and MP Infrastructure. This is the promise of the governor, to woo our people to bring their investment home. We want to provide decent housing for Anambra people. This estate has a place for all class of people. “We thank the company for keeping to their promise. We are happy that this is happening before us, and I assure you that it will happen within the life of this administration. By 2021, houses will stay springing up here. It is an assurance from the Obiano administration. Chief Executive Officer, Awka Millennium City Development Company Ltd (developers of the project), Mr Chimmy Ogbuebile stated that the estate boosts of diverse infrastructure including internal roads, hospital, shopping malls, standard drainages, security and many others, most of which have all been constructed. “What we are doing today is N1.747bn contract signing of 2nd Phase of Awka Millennium City internal roads with Sagez Nig. Ltd. We are making sure we install all the facilities needed before our subscribers can begin to build. “This is a brand new smart city being developed in the heart of Awka, the capital of Anambra State. Since the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding with the Anambra State government on Tuesday, June 19, 2019, a little over a year ago, we are proud with the progress of work on site. “If you look around, you will see that work has steadily progressed. We make bold to say that we are on course to achieving the vision of His Excellency, Chief Willie Obiano, Governor of Anambra State, the Anambra state government and our vision to build a world class smart city in Awka, comparable to what is obtainable in similar cities in Lagos, Abuja, Europe and America etc.” Ogbuebile assured that by 2021, subscribers to the project can begin to develop their properties, adding that there are no restrictions to types of buildings.