The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has slammed governors in the South-east over rejection of a security outfit recently launched by the pro-Biafran group. The group had last week announced the inauguration of a security out named ” Eastern Security Network” primarily targeted at checkmating the activities of criminal herdsmen in “Biafraland”. Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, who doubles as the Chairman of South-East Governors’ Forum, had reportedly distanced the governments and people of the area from the IPOB security arrangement. But IPOB, in a statement yesterday, described the governors of the area as cowards with shameful actions targeted at pleasing powers that be. The statement read in part, “We condemn in very strong terms, the recent shameful statement credited to Governor Dave Umahi on behalf of his fellow lilly-livered and coward governors of South- East against the newly established Eastern Security Network. “Such a cowardly statement is nothing but a shameful display of their irredeemable enslavement and loyalty to their caliphate slavemasters who in the first place appointed them governors. “They only further exposed their emptiness and detachment from the people. At a time when well meaning individuals and groups from the entire Southern Nigeria and Middle Belt are hailing the setting up of ESN, the so-called governors are busy advertising their opposition to the people they claim to be leading. Anyway, they never had the mandate of the people. So, we are not surprised. “But our message to the treacherous South-east governors and their South-south counterparts is that ‘the train has since left the station’ and can’t reverse its cause. “It’s pretty too late to have a rethink. The people have got what they long desired which the cowardly governors failed to give them because of selfish political interest. “May we remind the traitors that the Eastern region cannot be sacrificed at the altar of their political interest. It’s either they key in or shape out. The East can exist without them. They should steer clear because they can’t withstand the force behind ESN. “We reiterate that ESN is not a Biafra army but a vigilante group established to protect Biafrans against terrorists. The outfit is only a child of necessity born to bridge the gap of leadership failure by both states and the federal government to protect lives and property of Biafrans who are daily dehumanised, raped and killed by Fulani herdsmen and terrorists unchallenged by any security agency. “ESN is beyond IPOB. It’s the people’s irreversible resolve to defend themselves against conquest and occupation by aliens who enjoy the protection of the Fulani controlled federal government and security agents. Anyone trying to oppose the security outfit is testing the will of the people, and does so at his own peril.”