By Peter Uzoho The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) has formally launched its innovative network solution –Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition – Distribution Management System (SCADA-DMS) Centre, to enable it promptly and more efficiently monitor all activities on the networks and resolve issues detected on time. The project was inaugurated recently in Lagos by President Muhammadu Buhari through his representative and Minister of Power, Mr. Saleh Mamman. The project funded by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) via the Nigerian Electricity Market Stabilization Facility (NEMSF), was being implemented in phases through a partnership with Tech Systems Limited, and a Canadian based company, M/S Survalent Technology, a leading technological company reputed in providing SCADA-DMS-OMS solutions. SCADA–DMS is a state-of-the-art technology that provides remote coverage and relay of interconnected network communication, enabling the company to have real-time access to monitor and control its distribution infrastructure. According to the project partner, Tech Systems Limited, SCADA System is a futuristic technology integrated with other distribution systems including the GIS/OMS and DERMS Solutions. The control centre located at the corporate headquarters of the EKEDC is also integrated with all safety and security systems and fully protected with double firewall to provide data security at all times. The SCADA-DMS Centre is also equipped with modern web technology that enables the EKEDC leadership to monitor the power flow from any location across the globe.
Speaking at the event, the president commended EKEDC for attaining the feat, saying the company would now be able to promptly identify and resolve faults to ensure its customers continue to enjoy power supply. He described SCADA as one of the most advanced technologies in the power distribution business globally, saying he was “optimistic that this will translate to improved service delivery to customers within EKEDC’s network.” He added that the development was a clear evidence that the present administration was committed to the improvement of power supply in the country. The Chairman of EKEDC, Mr. Charles Momoh, stated that the implementation of the SCADA – DMS was a further evidence of EKEDC’s commitment towards the development of the power sector in Nigeria. He said features provided by the system such as real time monitoring, remote fault identification and data analysis, would ensure the company’s operations meet up with global standards as well as give a boost to its service excellence drive. Also, the Managing Director of EKEDC, Mr. Adeoye Fadeyibi, reiterated the company’s commitment to improving its services and customer satisfaction, adding that more projects aimed at actualising the desired stable electricity supply were underway. On his part, the Managing Director of Tech Systems Limited, Dr. Walter Olatunde, said: “We consider it a privilege and opportunity to partner with Eko Electricity in considering technology as the path to a reliable and efficient customer satisfaction and we are happy to be a partner with EKEDC in moving to the next level as the most advanced and technologically in- tune distribution company in Nigeria.”