By Funmi Ogundare Following the official launch of the Project Zero initiative  by the Lagos State government, which witnessed the distribution of 450,000 MP3 players, e-learning devices which contain pre-recorded lessons that would enhance learning for public primary school pupils in the state, EKOEXCEL recently held a demonstration session showcasing the utility of the devices. Speaking at the ceremony in Lagos, the Director, School Management, EKOEXCEL, Mrs. Sonia Ivie described the devices as parents friendly and grade appropriate, adding that the pre-recorded lessons will be regularly updated to make learning at home easier and more accessible for children. According to her, “this is the largest ever e-learning drive in Africa by the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration, which has set a new record in public primary school education  presenting them with an e-learning MP3 device to enhance pupils’ learning on an individual basis, learning at their own pace and even ahead of teachers’ instruction.” She said the device is digitally portable with battery powered MP3 players (plus headphone and recharging cable) and memory card, adding that it has been distributed to all pupils at the primary school leve. “The EKOEXCEL branded players are easy to use and durable with the opportunity to replay lessons. Players do not require internet connectivity and are not network dependent and are reusable.” She appealed to parents to help their children to use it effectively, adding that it comes with workbooks to assist them with assignments given to them by their teachers. In his remarks, the Education Secretary, Kosofe Local Government Area (LGA), Mr. Tunde Soleye appealed to parents to cooperate with the government so that their children can effectively use the devices.
“We can only do our own bit by introducing an initiative and providing the facilities that will enhance learning,” he said. The Chairman, Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Lagos branch, Adedoyin Adesina commended the government for investing in the welfare and educational development of the children, who he described as the future leaders. He urged parents to complement the efforts of the teachers in the school and assist their children to take advantage of the MP3 players provided by the government. “The MP3 players will give Lagos State pupils’ access  to learn at their own time and schedule.
Participants at the demonstration were representatives of the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (LSUBEB), education secretaries and parents.