Tyson Fury has criticised Anthony Joshua for not being vocal enough about their proposed super-fight which he says “has to happen”. Joshua retained his IBF, WBA and WBO titles against Kubrat Pulev last Saturday then said about the WBC belt: “Whoever has got the belt, I would love to compete with them. If that is Tyson Fury, let it be Tyson Fury.”
A fight between Joshua and Fury, who hold every major title between them, is being discussed for 2021 to decide the undisputed heavyweight champion. Anthony Joshua knocked out Kubrat Pulev to edge closer to a dream fight against Tyson Fury.
“Next year, the fight has to happen,” Fury told The Jonathan Ross Show.
“He’s come over his final hurdle last week against Pulev. And now we’re both free to make this fight. I’m willing to do the fight. “He was asked the question: ‘Do you want to fight Tyson Fury?’
“Very plain and simple, and he never answered the question. It was a simple yes or no answer, wasn’t it? “Then they said: ‘Do you think you’re the best heavyweight in the world?’
“And he went (holds hands up). Didn’t answer the question. Ask me: ‘Do you want to fight Anthony Joshua?’
“Yes.” Fury insisted he was the division’s No 1: “Me, by a mile. There we go, that’s how you answer the question.
“He is unified champion now, I was in 2015 before my problems and I had to vacate them all. So it’ll be the first time since Lennox Lewis 20 years ago that there’s been an undisputed champion.” Fury said about his future in the ring: “I’m a creature of habit. I’ve done this since in the womb, basically. Came out fighting, fists ready. I’ll continue until there’s no more challenges, no more proper challenges to fight. “When I beat Joshua next year, I’ll have beaten the best from the last era and my era. So then there’ll always be someone else to fight.” Fury added about Joshua: “He’s a great fighter, Olympic gold medallist, two-time heavyweight champion just like me, he’s won all the best, he’s a great, great athlete. Of course I have respect for him.”