By Adedayo Akinwale The All Progressives Congress (APC) has declared the purported suspension of the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, Senator Andrew Uchendu and Chief Hon. Victor Giadom as members of the party in Rivers State as null and void. The ruling party said the ward executives that purportedly suspended the trio were unknown to the national headquarters of the party. The party’s Head Legal Services, Mr. Dare Oketade, disclosed this in a statement issued yesterday, adding that the national secretariat of the party had no records that the said ward executive officers of the party in Rivers State. It, therefore, warned party members in the state against the consequences of impersonation both within the constitution of the party and the laws of Nigeria. Oketade stated: “The attention of the Party has been drawn, through the social and print media to the purported suspension of Hon. Rotimi Amaechi, Senator Andrew Uchendu and the purported expulsion of Chief Victor Giadom, respectively as members of the party in the state by some so-called ward executives of the party. “It is therefore in the interest of the general public and our members in Rivers State that I am further directed to notify you that all actions purportedly taken by those ward executives, unknown to the National Headquarters of the party, and you in the name of the All Progressives Congress are null and void and of no moment. “We have checked through our records at the national secretariat and found out that these persons are not officers of the party in Rivers State. I am therefore directed by the National Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni to notify you, for the avoidance of doubt, that the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress is led by the Hon. Isaac Abbot Ogbobula who were duly sworn in at the National Secretariat of the party on the 11th of December 2020 by virtue of the National Executive Committee directives issued at its 8th December, 2020 meeting held at the Council Chambers of the Aso Rock Villa, Abuja.” The ruling party noted that “it is in the interest of the general public and members in Rivers State that I am further directed to notify you that all actions purportedly taken by those ward executives, unknown to the National Headquarters of the party, and you in the name of the All Progressives Congress are null and void and of no moment.” Oketade stated categorically that the party would henceforth not tolerate any acts which are calculated to disparage the leaders of the party or bring the party to ridicule for whatever motivation.