By Dike Onwuamaeze The Institute of Directors Nigeria (IoD) has honoured four distinguished Nigerian entrepreneurs with fellowship awards, during its 2020 Annual Directors’ Dinner and Award Night held recently in Lagos. Those honoured were the Chairman of Troyka Holdings, Dr. Abiodun Olusina Shobanjo; Chief Executive Officer, Corporate Leisure Limited, Mr. Mustapha Biodun Jaji; Governor of Ogun State, Mr. Adedapo Abiodun, and Chairman of BUA Group, Alhaji AbdulSamad Rabiu. Shobanjo and Jaji were honoured with Honorary Fellow award and Distinguished Fellow award of the institute respectively while Abiodun and Rabiu, who are members of the institute, were honoured with the Fellows award of the IoD. The President and Chairman of Governing Council of the IoD Nigeria, Mr. Bobasuwa Chris Okunowo, said the annual directors’ dinner and award night, “is one of the key programmes of our institute meant to recognise and present awards to eminent personalities and organisations that have distinguished themselves in their various fields of endeavour.” Okunowo described 2020 as a challenging year for businesses and the country as a whole. “These myriad of challenges coupled with the fresh problems brought about by COVID-19 made 2020 a difficult year for businesses in Nigeria. “Therefore, we must not lose sight of these challenges and we must continue to advocate and advise government on viable options that would be beneficial for our nation,” Okunowo said. According to the Principal Partner, AD Consulting, Mrs. Olajumoke Adenowo, who was also the guest speaker during the occasion, the difficulties and challenges of 2020 have separated true leaders from chaffs in the same way the heat that melts the wax also hardens the mud. She described the awardees as people that have brought something significant to the year. Speaking during the occasion, the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs. Folashade Sherifat Jaji, expressed delight over the opportunity to participate in celebrating outstanding members of the institute who have distinguished themselves in their respective fields of human endeavour while adding value to the Nigerian business community.