By Peter Taiwo The Police Special Fraud Unit (SFU) re-arraigned one Engr. Rasaq Sefiu Adesina at an Ikeja High Court, Lagos State, over an alleged sum of N120 million said to have been obtained by false pretences and intent to defraud one Lanre Obisesan. Engr. Adesina was docked on a six-count charge bordering on obtaining money by false pretences, intent to defraud and forged document which are all contrary to Sections 8(a) and 1(3) of Advance Fee Fraud and other Fraud Related Offences Act No. 14 of 2006, Section 467, 468 of the Criminal Code Cap. C38 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. The SFU Prosecutor, E.A Jackson, informed the Honourable Court that the Defendant, Babatunde Smith Adigun and Ajape whom are all at large, sometime in 2010 conspired amongst themselves to obtain the sum of N120 million from one Lanre Obisesan, by false pretences that they had the power, right and authority to sell a landed property belonging to Mr. ldowu Balogun and Musbal Nig. Ltd. According to the charge sheet, “That you Engr. Rasaq Sefiu Adesina, Babatunde Smith (at large), Adigun (at large) and Ajape (at large), on or about 5 December, 2010, in Ikeja, Lagos State, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, knowingly forged a document described as “Special Resolution of Musbal Nig. Ltd”, with intent that it may in any way be used or acted upon as genuine, whether in Nigeria or elsewhere, to the prejudice of any person, and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 467 of the Criminal Code Cap. C38 Laws of
the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. The Defendant pleaded not guilty to charges preferred against him by the SFU, upon which Prosecutor urged the court for a trial date Defence counsel, Abdul Azeez Jimoh made a humble application to the court, for the Defendant to continue with the bail granted to him previously. Also mentioning to the court that since the bail has been granted, the Defendant had not violated any of the bail terms. Justice Hakeem Oshodi, granted the application of the defence counsel, and adjourned the matter to 4th of February, 2021 for continuation of trial.