BMW Club Nigeria ‘Feed Lagos CSR’, a non-profit/non-governmental organisation based in Lagos State, and partners will on December 19, 2020, hold the largest car convoy Drive-in Auto show Concert tagged: 2020 Autofest. The 2020 Autofest, which will take place at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS) in Lagos, will also see the largest car convoy distributing N1 million worth of food and drinks to the homeless. In a statement signed and made available to THISDAY on Thursday by the Head of Public Relations for BMWCLUBNG, Mrs. Linda Dominguez, she stated that the event would portray a luxury-to-rugged Autofest 2020 as it continues to be more electrifying, efficient, enhanced and the most anticipated motorsports event in Nigeria. According to the statement, “Though we have all had a turbulent 2020, we remain thankful for making it this far, and to end the year on a positive note, BetKing, Fearless Energy Drink, Ace of Spades, Grandcru Beat 99.9 FM, Work and Play, Coscharis Motors, and the BMW Club have put together Autofest 2020- a drive-in auto show and concert. “There will be lots of music performances, car and bike stunts, food, drinks, virtual reality games and an exciting array of the largest Christmas fireworks display.” Dominguez added that Mavin artists, Ladipoe and Crayon, DJ Jimmy Jatt, DJ Tee, DJ Jennyswitch, DJ Kraizee are among others who will headline this year music concert. She noted that the event would highlight ‘10 Cars 1 King’, which is powered by BetKing, and is offering N1million as cash prizes for the King of Drift and Drag championship. “This year’s Autofest 2020 will feature races, bikes and car parade as well as a display of an array of exotic automobile ranging from Mercedes, Lexus, Audi BMW, Ferrari, Lamborghini, Maserati, Kawasaki, Ducati, among many other fascinating automobiles. “Expected to grace the Autofest event that has evolved to become one of the most anticipated auto shows in Nigeria are racers, car enthusiasts, speedsters, and Petrol heads, among others. “The event, which is put together by BMW Club Nigeria, promises to be full of thrills,” Dominguez said. According to the organizers in the statement, the 2020 edition of Autofest promises to be more thrilling, adrenaline pumping and all shades of everything beautiful at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS) Lagos starting by 2p.m., adding that free ticket giveaways will be announced on their social media pages.