The second edition of the GAGE Awards 2021 has called for nomination to enable Nigerians nominate their favourite individuals, and brands who brought value to their lives using digital technology in 2020. Facilitated by the COVID-19 pandemic, the CEO, The GAGE Awards, Mr. Johnson Anorh said 2020 was the year digital became the mainstay of our lives. According to him, although the world experienced lockdown for months, digital made sure humans survived and changed the way they do things forever. “Now, it’s time to celebrate and reward the innovators and creators who ensured we came out unscathed,” he added. The GAGE Awards ‘21 is on the theme, ‘Year of the Digital Takeover’. This is true testament in as digital opened us to new possibilities. “We suddenly embrace working from home, video conferencing, e-concerts, home schooling and many more. This is what GAGE Awards 2021 is celebrating.” The call for nominations is opened to 20 categories in five areas. They include innovation, information, inspiration, entertainment and business. Some of the categories open for nomination are: Banking App of the Year; Breakout App of the Year; Best Digital Financial Platform; Online Comedian of the Year; Tech Entrepreneur of the Year; Digital Artiste of the Year; Website of the Year; Influencer of the Year; Social Movement of the Year; and Influencer of the Year among others. The GAGE Awards ‘21 comes with introduction of a new category – Gage Star of the Year. This category celebrates the individual or group who took the Internet by storm for the year under review. Nominations will be done strictly on the GAGE Awards website, www.gageawards.com. All information about the categories, nominations and guidelines can be found on the website. The maiden edition of the GAGE Awards took place in February this year at the Eko Convention Centre. It attracted support from corporate organisations and government bodies such as the Nigerian Communications Commission, Lagos State Government and a host of other organisations. Big winners on the night were GTBank, Airtel, E-Tranzact, Jumia Food, Kiki Mordi, Onyeka Akumah, and Taaooma among others. The GAGE Awards is an initiative of TOMATO DIGITALS; it is aimed at fast tracking the pace of technological growth in Nigeria. By introducing the much-needed standard, GAGE Awards is facilitating growth, innovation and attracting new talents to the digital space. The Awards celebrates the best of Internet in Africa with a spotlight on Individuals, Influencers, Commerce, Brands and Entertainers for their outstanding activities and contribution to the digital ecosystem annually. The 2021 edition is scheduled to take place in April 2021.