By Emma Okonji 9mobile has reassured its enterprise customers of improved quality of service on its network in 2021. The reassurance was given during 9mobile’s Enterprise Customer forum 2020 in Port Harcourt recently. The forum is designed to appreciate customers for their loyalty while receiving their feedback for better service response. Speaking at the event, The Chief Commercial Officer of 9mobile, Stjepan Udovicic, commended the partners for their commitment, support and patronagewhile also assuring them of more robust plans and projections 9mobile has put in place to offer more quality products and services. According to him, “we are committed to take our network engineering and product capabilities to greater levels in 2021 and beyond so that we are able to support you more effectively. Your feedback is very crucial to us in order to service you better in the incoming year.” Udovicic maintained that 9mobile’s projection was to have better collaboration with enterprise customers, noting that, “the telecommunications industry is an innovative one; therefore, there is need to be more specific and deliberate in service delivery. We are going to have lots of customization, where enterprises can customize solutions that meet their needs and satisfy their unique industries based on feedback. We will prioritize Internet of Things (IOT), machine learning, artificial intelligence, new technologies around 5G exploration in different parts of the country.” Also, 9mobile’s Head of Enterprise Sales, Mr. Olalekan Fatusa, said customers could look forward to more collaborative engagements from 9mobile, as the industry is becoming more innovative, deliberate and need specific. Responding to a wide range of comments from customers, Fatusa assured them that all feedback will be prioritised responding to the issues highlighted both in the region and in other parts of the country. 9mobile Regional Head, South-South, Martins Ojugbeli, said the event was also organised to recognise and appreciate their corporate customers for their support and patronage, for which the brand is promising to reciprocate through improved customer experience on our network. “We are telling our customers the kind of enterprise solutions we are going to roll out; we have also discussed how we are going to improve on the network in terms of coverage and quality,” he said. Ojugbeli expressed confidence in the outlook of the company on the basis of responses received. “Our customers have said it all, they are with us and behind us, and they have given their commitment that we have their support going into 2021,” Ojugbeli further said.