Minister of State, Power, Mr Goddy Jedy-Agba has lauded the recent promotion of some senior military personnel, saying that it would help motivate them to do more for the country. The minister stated that promotion, welfare and motivation of personnel were capable of strengthening and boosting performance, not only in the military, but in all sectors and spheres of the country’s national life. A statement by the Special Assistant, Media and Communications Strategy to the minister, Mr. Ofem Uket, quoted him as saying that security and indeed the protection of lives and property is a fundamental principle of any administration. Speaking at his residence in Abuja, when he received in audience Maj. Gen. Sanusi Dahiru, Deputy Commandant, Martin Luther Agwai Peace Centre, Jaji, the minister urged the newly promoted military general to see his new rank as a call to commitment and duty in defence of the sovereignty of the country at all times. He declared that the present administration was interested in tackling the challenges of insecurity and providing an enabling environment for economic activities to thrive and as well ensure the safety of lives and property of citizens across the country. Dahiru is among the newly promoted and decorated senior military officers in Nigeria by the defense ministry and the promotion is said to be part of the present administration’s strategy to motivate and encourage the military and other services in the country to live up to its duties of protecting lives and property. Jedy-Agba added that it had therefore become politically and economically expedient to boost the morale of security personals to put in their best in defense of the country. According to the minister, security is every one’s duty especially through information gathering to equip security agencies to be more direct in their approach in the fight against insecurity across the states of the federation. Responding, Dahiru thanked the minister for the charge to performance and promised to be more committed to his primary responsibility to defend the territorial integrity of the country at all times. He assured the minister and the federal government that the military will continue to uphold its constitutional role and ensure that no stone is left unturned to sustain the fight against the enemies of Nigeria to further strengthen the economy of the nation. The federal government recently promoted and decorated senior military officers who are due and qualified to be promoted to the next rank, a move it said is aimed at boosting the moral of personnel amidst the security challenges in the country.