…We are not Biafra agitators suspects denied The Rivers state Commissioner of Police (CP), Joseph Mukan, yesterday paraded four persons suspected to be members of the Indigenous People of Biafra(IPOB). Mukan also paraded two kidnappers who allegedly kidnapped a staff of the Nigerian National Petroleum Cooperation (NNPC) at his residence in the Ada-George area of ObioAkpor Local Government Area of the state, last week. The suspects are, Ugochukwu Abaziem, Chinedu Ureabu, Sunny Vincent and Onyekachi Sylvester (IPOB ) and Godspower Saturday, and David Simeon were paraded for alleged kidnapping. According to the CP, the suspected Biafra agitators were arrested in Iriebe community of Obio/Akpor near Oyibo. Parading the persons, Mukan claimed that the men were part of those who hijacked #EndSARS protest in the state and unleashed mayhem on security men and burnt down their stations in the state. But the suspects in their separate interviews with newsmen denied involvement with IPOB agitation neither do they have hands in the burning of police stations, alleging that they were framed up. One of the suspects Vincent said the Police arrested him while he was on early morning walk/jogging, claiming that he did not dress properly, whereas he dressed in black joggers and blacktop, with a touch of white parches. The people called for help from human rights activists, others to come to their aide, and prevail on the police to properly investigate their claims, especially from their neighbourhood that they are not members of the body. Meanwhile, the CP has assured residents of the state of hitch-free Christmas and new year celebrations but warned against the use of fireworks, crackers, for the celebration. “The Command is not oblivious of the fact that this is the period where criminals take advantage to unleash havoc on unsuspecting persons. “In view of the above, therefore, we have put in place elaborate and workable security measures that will contain and curtail these nefarious activities. “I want to re-echo our earlier stand on the use of fireworks, crackers, and knockouts, which by their very nature are explosives, capable of causing harm, panic, and tension in the State.” He called on parents and guardians to warn their children and wards on the need to steer clear from them or risk arrest persecution when caught.