Goddy Egene
Ardova Plc (AP) has marked its official entry into the consumer market with the launch of its first branded retail service station located at Oniru, Lagos. Commenting, Chief Executive Officer, AP Plc, Olumide Adesoun, said: “We are glad to commence the rollout of our newly branded AP service stations with the launch of our Oniru station, which is wholly solar powered and an indication of our mission to champion the transition to clean energy in Nigeria. “I am certain that customers who come to this station and every other AP service station will notice that we had more than a facelift, we built future ready stations that are a pleasure to be in for customers while we provide excellent service in catering to their needs.” According to him, the goal with the newly rebranded AP stations was to take customer experience to a whole new level by offering them a one-stop-hub tailored to satisfy their energy needs, while progressively adding other energy products beyond conventional fuels. “We will continue to add interesting products and services that are certain to delight our customers. We are highly committed to becoming Nigeria’s leading provider of clean energy. “With our Oniru station, we are providing a glimpse of the direction in which we are headed. The station runs strictly on solar energy and has so far generated over 5,000 kilowatt-hours and in due time will begin to power the street lights in its immediate vicinity. This is a model of the future we are creating, one through where we can harness sustainable energy in our service stations to generate enough energy to power our immediate communities,” he said. Also, speaking, Chairman, AP Plc, Abdul Wasiu Sowami, noted that the launch of the station marked the final phasing out of old brand. “The launch of this station marks a significant step in our strategy to build a strong integrated energy brand and to also delight our customers with a lot more than traditional fuel products. The Oniru station attests to the standards of excellence our customers can expect from all AP stations they drive into across the country.”