Committed to helping West African technology talents seeking opportunities in the United Kingdom through the UK Tech Nation Global Talent visa option, LittlestepsPR – a management agency that works with individuals, executives, and industry experts to uncover, capture and share insights that matter – has unveiled a promotional package for the Tech Nation visa applicants that would help to position them as exceptional talent and globally attractive technology experts in their respective countries, a key requirement for obtaining the Tech Nation Talent visa. The Client Services Lead at LittlestepsPR, Omotolani Olufemi said the UK Tech Nation visa was aimed at attracting the brightest talent in tech to help bolster the UK tech scene and provides opportunities for exceptional African tech talent who wish to settle in the United Kingdom, given its strong technology ecosystem, its proximity to the US and the rest of the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) market, and the current obstacles with the US E2 visa refusal. Olufemi stated that the UK Tech Nation Visa, remained one of the best visa schemes, especially for tech talent focused on building great things in tech. “The Tech Nation Talent visa currently has two options: the Exceptional Talent route, which is given to tech talents proven to be recognized leaders, and the Exceptional Promise route, given to those that can demonstrate digital leadership potential in their respective countries. A key requirement for both options is the ability for applicants to position themselves as exceptional talent and tell a convincing story about their worth, experience, creativity, innovation, and prospective contribution to the UK’s position at the forefront of the global digital economy. Relevant evidence requested by Tech Nation includes recognition in national dailies as a digital expert or thought leader. We have helped applicants in Nigeria and Ghana successfully position as digital experts with superior capabilities in digital technology in West Africa via targeted national and regional interviews, opinion articles, and expert quotes. We can help applicants satisfy this requirement for the Tech Nation Talent Visa,” she said. Chair of Tech Nation, Stephen Kelly, said : “Tech Nation’s Visa Report shows that, despite the pandemic, international interest to work in the UK tech sector has never been higher. Attracting tomorrow’s tech leaders to the UK is crucial to the continued growth of the sector, the UK’s place in the world, and driving the nation through recovery to growth in the digital age.” According to Tech Nation, 52 per cent of applicants since 2014 are currently employed at some of the UK’s leading tech firms. The Tech Nation Visa enables the brightest and best tech talent from around the world to come and work in the UK’s digital technology sector, contributing their cutting-edge expertise, creativity, and innovation to maintaining the UK’s position at the forefront of the global digital economy. Since November 2018, the Tech Nation Global Talent Visa has received 1,975 applications and endorsed 920 from over 50 countries, with India, the US, and Nigeria being the top three countries for visa applications.