Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The Chairman of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, has said that the amendment of the party’s constitution was more important than the membership registration and revalidation exercise. Buni who was represented by the Secretary of the party, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, stated this yesterday at the inauguration of state chairmen of the party. According to him, “Apart from the issue of membership registration, there are the outstanding issues of constitutional amendment. This is a matter that is as important as reconstitution of leadership, if not more important. I believe that our capacity to strengthen our rules through constitutional amendment will help us to put all the problems that led to the crisis that brought us to this point behind us. I will therefore invite you to take all the necessary steps to forward recommendations that will enable us to strengthen our rules.” Buni stressed that the meeting with the state chairmen was convened to further clarify the decisions of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the great party at its meeting of Tuesday 8th December, 2020. He noted that it was necessary to meet with the state chairmen of the party to explain the details of the decisions in order to ensure uniform implementation in all the States, Local Governments and Wards. Buni stated: “You will recall that one of the decisions of NEC was the dissolution of all organs of the party and inviting members of the dissolved organs to serve as Caretaker Committee for the intervening period between now and the Congresses that would elect new leaders to pilot activities of the party for the next four years in line with the provisions of our party’s constitution. “Having been part of the deliberations and therefore been part of the decision, you have once again demonstrated your strong commitment to the growth of our party. “Your sacrifice is a challenge to all of us to ensure that every necessary decision required to strengthen the structures of our party are taken and our party’s electoral advantages are fully restored.” Buni said without further delay, having dissolved all the party structures, including the State Executive Committee, nature abhored vacuum, hence, the birth of the committee. He further stressed that members of the former State Executive Committee would be members of the Caretaker Committee, adding that in this capacity, they were expected to facilitate all the required consultations with all the leaders and stakeholders of the party in the state to ensure smooth transition. The party leadership therefore mandated the state chairmen to inaugurate the respective Caretaker Committees of Local Governments and Wards within the next one week. “As part of the transitional activities, you are already aware of the decision to commence membership registration/revalidation. You will be required as State Caretaker Committee members to provide the needed leadership and guidance for a successful exercise in line with all the guidelines that is provided.”