By Nosa Alekhuogie The ongoing Pure Bliss Millionaire Promo, which has produced seven millionaires and other categories of winners recently produced another millionaire and an iPhone winner. The winners were presented with cash and smartphone prizes in Lagos, during the prize presentation ceremony, witnessed by journalists and organised by OK Foods, makers of Pure Bliss and other brands of biscuits. Speaking during the prize presentation, Brand Manager, OK Foods, Oluwaseyi Aderibigbe, said N60 million was set aside as prize for various winning categories in the Pure Bliss Millionaire promo. OK Food presented a cash prize of N1 million to Ogor Ann Obiageri, an entrepreneur based in Lagos and one iPhone 11 to Adams Deborah, a first year student of Sociology from the University of Lagos. According to Aderibigbe, winners emerged by purchasing the Pure Bliss biscuit and sending the code they found inside the pack to a designated number. Customers who participate stand the chance of winning various items, including cash prize of N1 million. Giving details of the prizes, Aderibigbe said: “We have over N30 million worth of airtime to be won, cash prize of N1m each, for 15 lucky winners, high-end smartphones for 12 lucky winners, 24 television sets for 24 winners, 120 bluetooth speakers, 120 headsets and 480 product packs for our winners in the ongoing Pure Bliss Millionaire Promo. For the cash prize of N1 million, a total of seven millionaires have already emerged. The promo will run till the end of the year or while stocks last.” “We see the promo as a better way to reward our loyal customers and to impact on their lives. The essence is to light up the days of our consumers, Aderibigbe added. Obiageri, who was presented with N1 million, said: “I bought just one Pure Bliss biscuit for my daughter and sent the code inside the biscuit wrap and I was called to be informed that I have won N1 million. I am happy to win, and I am surprised I won because I was not expecting to win the N1 million prize.”