The government of Estonia has invited the Chairman of Transnational Corporation of Nigeria and Heirs Holdings, Mr. Tony Elumelu, as one of the panelists in an online cross-continental hackathon titled: “EU-Africa: The Post Crisis Journey.” The conference will take place on December 10th, 2020, according to a letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Republic of Estonia, Unnas Reinsalu. Reinsalu, in the letter, stated that the founder of the Tony Elumelu Foundation will participate as a panel member of the hackathon together with the president of the Republic of Estonia, Mrs. Kersti Kaijulaid. “The aim of the hackathon is to accelerate socioeconomic development through innovative digital solutions. The teams that will work on the problems, will be African-European joint teams — a format that will further strengthen African-European cooperation on a personal and professional level. “The challenges that the teams will seek digital solutions to, have been selected by the African Union and the Estonian team in cooperation with Smart Africa. The hackathon will be followed by a post-hackathon matchmaking event, which aims to bring the teams together with all the help they need to bring the solutions developed during the hackathon into real life. There will also be a frilly online post-hackathon mentoring program, with mentors both from African and European countries.” According to the letter, in addition to participating, with the president of the Republic of Estonia, Elumelu is also deliver a video with an inspirational message to the participants. The African-European online hackathon program aims to find innovative solutions to socio-economic problems that have been further escalated by the outburst of the COVID-19 pandemic. The program was put together in collaboration with Estonia Ministry of Foreign Affairs Development Cooperation and African Union, Irish Aid, Luxembourg Aid and Development, Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Finland and Polish Aid and implemented by Garage48 and Smart Africa.