By Goddy Egene The Executive Vice Chairman of Funds Matrix & Assets Management Limited, a dealing member firm of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Yadinma Onwu, has advised investors to embrace the stock market and enjoy positive returns on their investments. Speaking to THISDAY on the sideline of the 10th anniversary celebration of the company in Lagos, Onwu said while many retail investors were still afraid to invest in equities, the market has been very profitable for those who are taking the risk using the services of professionals and applicable rules. According to him, Fund Matrix has been offering investment banking services that cuts across securities trading, multiple trading channels, comprehensive market information and investment advisory in the past 10 years. “With our customised services our clients have been taking advantage of investment opportunities with ease at competitive fees with value-added services over the years. “Although the past 10 years have been challenging, we have not done badly and the major thing that we have as our take way is our integrity. We have worked with the management of the NSE to expose some fraudulent and dubious people who attempted to sell other peoples’ shares. We have exposed many of them,” he said. Onwu, who attributed the success recorded in the past 10 years to patronage by clients and dedication of staff, said the target is for the company to be among the top 10 in the next five years. “You have to be creative and innovative to survive the Nigerian economy and that is exactly what we have been doing and will continue to do that because we have equipped ourselves with the right strategies,” he said. Also speaking, the Managing Director/COO of the company, Mr. Isaac Olorungbon, the client management services of Fund Matrix distinguishes Fund Matrix from other companies. According to him, the company has been reinforcing the confidence of many retail investors, explaining to them that they can make money by investing in equities compared to other asset classes. “Now the equities market is giving good returns and we advise clients brace up and take informed risks. We have been guiding our clients very well and the outcome has been fantastic. We encourage them to take informed risk based on their investment objectives. If it is investing to get regular dividends or capital appreciation, we know the stocks to recommend for them” he said.