Nume Ekeghe Access Bank Plc has launched SWIFTPAY, a verified payment gateway to aide payment and inventory for micro, small and medium scale enterprises (MSMEs). Group Head (Emerging) Businesses, Access Bank Plc, Ayodele Olojede, while speaking during a media chat recently, said the initiative was to encourage businesses expand online by offering a safe, convenient and cheap portal as well proffer digital marketing training and other array of benefits its customers. She said: “At Access Bank, we are committed to providing very practical solutions that supports the growth of our customers. We know that stronger participation in markets helps strengthen contribution to economic development. “SWIFTPAY is just a payment link that can be hosted on your social media page, you can send to anyone to pay you. It is easy less than 5 minutes to sign up, convenient, straight through and time savings for everyone.” Olojede added: ‘SWIFTPAY’ is free and the processing charge is discounted up to 15 per cent to ensure you keep most of your earning unlike other services. Also, we are a bank, your account is already domiciled with us, you don’t have to go through any additional know your customer (KYC) checks, your business is verified, we will use your financial records to lend you money.” Furthermore she added: “I also want to mention that we recently introduced visa business debit cards to our customers and we are the first to do in the industry in partnership with Visa The business debit cards comes with higher withdrawal/spend limit limits for customers, it gives you discounts to courier services, you know logistics is a critical element for online business and it also comes bundled with access to Google business advisory services for o learn how to manage your online store front. “Payment acceptance services is a critical element. In the context of keeping safe, more businesses are using WhatsApp, Instagram, Telegram, Facebook to sell and those who can afford it are building their own website to transit their business online. However, they still receive payments by transfer through DMs. No doubt DMs have been helpful but as your business sales increase, how many customers could you attend to in day without exhaustion as a small business owner! Infact, some DMs never get responded to until days after.”