By Peter Uzoho As part of efforts to drive education development in Nigeria through proactive corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative, a petroleum products marketer, OVH Energy has awarded scholarships to 19 students from its host communities. Through the OVH Energy University Scholarship Scheme (USS), the 19 beneficiaries from universities within its area of operation will begin to enjoy the scholarships from the current 2020/2021 academic year. The company said the programme was designed to award scholarships to undergraduates who are in their second, third and fourth years in the university, with a minimum of 2.75 CGPA and and must have passed through the selection process. The scheme is open to Nigerian undergraduates in the category of Areas of Operations Merit Award (AOM), for students from host communities in which OVH Energy operates. The initiative, which started in 2018 with 14 initial beneficiaries from the organisation’s five host communities in Lagos and Rivers States, has provided an enabling learning environment for many students. The scheme aligns with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal Four (SDG4), which mandates nations and industry players to promote quality education. This is would in turn advance human capacity building, a sustainable business environment, and corporate profitability. Throwing more light on the initiative, the Managing Director of OVH Energy, Mr. Huub Stokman stated: “OVH Energy has a strong heritage and expertise in delivering outstanding value for all stakeholders. “Through our University Scholarship Scheme, which started in 2018, we have impacted the lives of many students by providing the much-needed financial support so that they can focus more on their education. “The scholarship affords each of the selected 19 students from participating universities N100,000 each. “We commenced in 2018 by awarding 14 beneficiaries from five of our host communities in Lagos and Rivers State in the category of Areas of Operation Merit Award (AOM). “In 2019, the scheme was extended to four additional beneficiaries; two each in Ekpan and Nkporgu communities in Delta and Rivers States respectively.” Stokman promised that as Africa’s indigenous marketer of choice, OVH Energy is committed to providing an enabling environment for Nigerians to thrive and to provide trusted petroleum products and services for Nigerians. “We would premain true to our mission by continuing to build a customer-centric organisation operating to the highest safety standards and delivering outstanding value to our shareholders,” he added.