For Elizabeth Jack-Rish, December 5, 2015, would forever remain fresh in her memory. On that red-letter day, she had found love and also given her heart out to Tein T.S. Jack-Rich, a billionaire oil baron and founder of BELEMA Oil Producing Limited, in love, amidst a blaze of glory. Five years into their marriage, the couple have continued to thank God for making their paths cross in life. Little wonder, the ELIN Group boss and mother of two took to social media to publicly celebrate her husband, saying, “Mi Amor, knowing you is like an increase of lifespan because of the joy and peace of mind you bring to me. You stood by me when no one was willing to even give me a chance. You have been my shield here on earth and I will forever be grateful for you, Iyanabo; to our beautiful daughters, you will always be their first love and shield of protection. “Five years of being your wife has brought me nothing but joy, knowledge, peace of mind, and most importantly, our baby girl. I won’t trade what I share with you for anything else in this world. I hope you are here and live thereafter forever. Happy Anniversary.’’ The award-winning 27-year-old entrepreneur is one woman who is making the womenfolk proud. Two years ago, she embarked on an entrepreneurial journey with the ELIN Group. In just two years of operation, she has achieved great success as the business has grown into a conglomerate. With footprints across West Africa and the United States, her group’s investment portfolio touches several facets of Nigerian society, drawing on its core operating values of integrity, mutual respect, customer service, innovation, and safety. She has grown the ELIN Group Limited into a thriving privately-owned conglomerate, with diverse business interests in real estate, power generation, agriculture, gas utilization, and mining operations, maritime, and now the aviation sector. Interestingly, the light-complexioned woman has not forgotten her roots even though her success has made her one of the most highly regarded business leaders in Nigeria and beyond, she remains passionate about giving back to others so they can benefit from the same opportunities she has enjoyed.
Her foundation, Elizabeth Jack-Rich Foundation, which was founded three years ago, has been a conveyor of hope to the downtrodden, the aged, and ex-service personnel.