The respected Nigerian auto dealer, Coscharis Motors Plc, a subsidiary of Coscharis Group has officially reintroduced the Renault auto models into the Nigeria market with complementary after-sales facilities in Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Uyo. According to the Group Managing Director, Coscharis Group, Josiah Samuel, “if you recall in July 2019 we formally announced our partnership with the Renault Group to represent their auto brands in Nigeria. This was done with fanfare when we equally showcased our ultra-modern Semi – Knocked Down Assembly Plant located at our group head office in Lagos. As at today, Coscharis Motors is set to commence Renault vehicle sales based on locally assembled models and fully built models for Nigeria roads. The plan is to ensure that we continually deliver value for money by providing quality automobile like the Renault brand vehicles to discerning Nigerians at affordable price range”. “So far, we have secured all the requisite OEM’s ratings and approvals to commence assemblage of the Duster and Logan while we are presently bringing in fully – built Koleos, Kwid and Oroch (which is to be introduced at a later date)”. Coscharis Motors is offering customers the options of 1.0 to 2.5-litre engines across the models.
Furthermore, Samuel pointed out, “Coscharis is fully equipped to handle all after-sales services and repairs. We have the original parts coupled with the right tools to fix the parts and Renault Certified Technicians to fix your vehicles. With the technical back up of our Renault partners, we are positioned to deliver a seamless aftersales services across our available facilities across the country for both existing owners and potential new customers. This gives us the confidence from our pedigree in representing iconic brands in Nigeria that we are set to simply delight our customers once again with the Renault brand as the exclusive franchise owner in Nigeria”. The Koleos
The Koleos is designed with a sense of detail and personality enhanced by its sleek appearance and athletic curves.
Behind its chic urban styling, Koleos has the DNA of a true 4X4. The ALL MODE 4×4-i technology allows you to select the transmission mode that your vehicle will need to be equally at home on dirt, mud or sand as it is on tarmac.
Koleos comes with a range of driver assistance technologies including active emergency braking, blind spot detection system, easy trunk access and R-Link 2 media system. Duster
Customers can choose from 1.6-Litre to 2.0Litre engine but whichever engine, it is built with a robust off-roader looks. With the superb ground clearance, the Duster is a practical and durable vehicle for the Nigerian road. The interior of the All-new Duster reflects its generous, adventure-seeking nature. The spacious cabin is bright and reassuring. The driver and passenger seats provide plenty of support to ensure your comfort wherever you go. The upholstery features a high-quality finish, as does the dashboard, where particular emphasis was placed on ergonomic design. Simple and intuitive, the multimedia system Media Nav with touching screen allows you to navigate through all the different functionalities: navigation, phone, radio, Aux/USB ports and Bluetooth® connection to listen to your favorite music. It also comes with hands free card to lock and unlock the doors from a distance as well as assist to start the air-conditioning before getting into the car. Logan
New Renault Logan has an even more modern and dynamic design. With redesigned front and rear end panels featuring the new Renault brand light signature, New Renault Logan is a beauty to behold. New Renault Logan has 5 generous seats to comfortably accommodate all your passengers. Enjoy useful and smart new storage areas, including a phone pouch and a front passenger side net pouch. There’s a new 12 V output in the rear for charging your devices. There’s also a 1/3-2/3* split-fold rear bench seat and a spacious boot to transport everything you need in the way that suits you. Combine utility and pleasure for a journey you’re sure to love. *Depending on the version. Logan’s ground clearance level (155-164mm) enhances its capacity to cope with extremely poor road surfaces (potholes, cobbles, uneven surfaces. The mechanics, bodywork (opening panels), air conditioning/ventilation system and passenger compartment all specially designed to cope with certain countries’ environments where dust is omnipresent. Logan has an excellent thermal comfort standard (the vehicle is designed to deal with “extremely hot” conditions. Kwid
Inside Renault Kwid, there’s plenty of headroom, legroom and elbowroom for the driver plus up to 4 passengers. There are ingenious storage spaces everywhere.
The Renault KWID’s class-leading boot space of 290L can be extended up to 1100L, making it the perfect partner for a long road trip. Customers can also personise their vehicle with a pack connect that offers you the possibility to integrate a black front grille with a chrome embellisher, a chrome ring around the fog lamps and a black pearl color for side mirrors. Customers can now contact our dealer outlets across Nigeria or visit www.renault.com.ng for pricing and specification listings.
Furthermore, existing customers can upgrade to newer models by trading in their current vehicles. About Coscharis Motors Plc
We are the sole franchise for Renault brands in Nigeria. Currently, we have top-notch sales and service centres across Nigeria with major dealership outlets in Abuja, Lagos, Port Harcourt and Uyo respectively.
Visit our website – www.renault.com.ng