Tobi Soniyi The Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC), Prof Bolaji Owasanoye, an Assistant Director, Federal Ministry of Justice, Tijjani Alkali Gazali and former National Legal Adviser, All Progressives Congress (APC), Babatunde John Kwame Ogala are among the 72 lawyers will be inaugurated tomorrow as Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) . Also to be sworn in as SAN are the son of a former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Aloma Muktah – John Mofolorunso Mustapha. Majiyagbe, ex-National General Secretaries, Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Afam Osigwe and Isiaka Abiola Olagunju, and a Lagos lawyer, Oladapo Akande Akin Osun. In a goodwill message, Ebun -Olu Adegboruwa, (SAN) urged the beneficiaries of the prestigious rank to deploy their new rank ‘to deepen legal practice, create the enabling environment for justice to thrive and to aid the legal profession to achieve purity of practice from the Inner Bar, as a model for others to emulate.”
The rank of Senior Advocates of Nigeria is awarded as a mark of excellence to members of the legal profession who have distinguished themselves as advocates and academic. Others to be sworn in tomorrow are: Obafemi Anthony Adewale, Chukwuemeka Obiajuru Nwagwu, Jacob E. Ochidi, Mela Audu Nunghe, Lawrence Fubara Anga, Akintola Olugbenga Akintoye, Abdullahi Yahaya, Uzoma Henry Azikiwe, Efefiom Otu Efiom Ekong, Taiye Abimbola Babajide Oladipo and Funmilayo Adunni Quadri. Others are Jean Chiazor Anishere, Taiwo Johnson Kupolati, Aliyu Omeiza Saiki, Richard Oma Ahonaruogho, Yusufu Nya Akirikwen, Adedapo Osariuyime TundeiOlowu, Olumide David Ayeni, Robert Egwono Emukpoeruo, Oluwtoyin Ajoke Bashorun, Chukwudi Chudi Nwabufo ObIeze, Boma Florence Ayomide Alabi, Olusegun Jonhson Fabunmi, Latonna Chuka Okoli, Peter Adogbejire Mrakpo, George Olatinde Babalola, Osayaba Omorodion Giwa-Osagie, Ejike Chukwuekwu Ezenwa, Jomoh A. Mumini, Muhammad Katu Sani Ndanusa and Yakubu Abdullahi Hussaini-Ruba. Also on the list Henry Okechukwu Akunebu, Uwadiogwu Sonny Ajala, Gideon Musa Kuttu, Ukachi Fredrick Onuobia, Uwemedimo Thomas Nwoko, Joseph Nnabuezeh M. Mbadugh, Nureini Oladoye Jimoh, Remi Peter Olatubora, Abimbola Oluseun Mobolaji, Moses Alfred Ebute, Nasiru Adamu Aliyu, Yusuf Asamah Kadiri, Festus Kayode Idepefor, Dada Adekunle Awosika, musibau Adetunbi, Abdulwahab Muahammad, Fatai Ajibola Dalley, Chukwuka Nwabueze Ikwuazom, Terkera Douglas Pete, Rasheed Okiki Adekunle Adegoke, Hussaini Zakariyau, Tochukwu Dominic Maduka and Magmud Kola Adesina. There are also Abdul Muhammad, Mohammed Ndarani Mohammed, Prof Afeisimi Dominic Badaiki, Prof Oghenemaro Festus Emiri, Prof Damilola Sunday Olawuyi, Prof. Zacheus Adangor, Prof. Edward Oyelowo Oyewo, Prof Sani Mohammad Adam, Prof Joseph Efeyeminen I. O. Abugu, Prof. Sampson Ihesiene Erugo and Omo-Eboh Omgbai Ikheowa.