Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc has introduced an educational programme targeted at secondary school teachers with the SEPLAT Teachers Empowerment Programme (STEP) initiative. The company in a statement said the programme aims to promote teachers’ creative thinking, allow for higher student engagement and offer a well-rounded education for recipients of the initiative. The five-day residential workshop introductory phase kicked off a six-month programme specially designed for teachers providing them training on teaching applications for Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics (STEAM) as well as leadership and self-improvement training. According to the company, it developed an online teachers’ resource centre which provides them access to inclusive learning, highlighting best techniques and practices for implementing STEAM teaching methods and assist them to learn to use such methods in the classrooms. It noted that the e-platform will provide and connect teachers to a collection of STEAM resources to enable them to understand, teach and demonstrate effectively to their students. General Manager, External Affairs and Communications of the company, Dr. Chioma Nwachuku, said a total of 100 teachers and 43 Chief Inspectors of Education (CIEs) drawn from Edo and Delta states are currently benefitting from the maiden edition. ’’Seplat is delighted with the invaluable role the company is playing with enhancing the quality of education with the many educational programmes offered through the company’s CSR initiatives. “With the STEP programme, the company now has a full bouquet of programmes to address the entire education value chain. Our programmes now cover improving school infrastructure, enhancing academic performance of students and building the skills and competencies of Teachers,’’ she said. The company said SEPLAT would be graduating the first set of teachers from the STEP initiative by first quarter of 2021, noting that 389 teachers from schools in Edo and Delta states sat for the qualifying test online on September 16, 2020. It added that a total of 100 teachers were selected from secondary schools evenly across the two states, disclosing that of the 100 teachers to be trained, 75 per cent is from public schools, while 25 per cent is from private schools.