Chiemelie Ezeobi writes that it was garlands and encomiums for DIG Leye Oyebade, a retired Deputy Inspector General of Police, at his pulling out parade from the force The big guns were recently rolled out for Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Adeleye Oyebade (Rtd) at his pulling out parade from the Nigeria Police. Oyebade’s sojourn into the force came to a close after having attained the mandatory 60 years of age. Parade At the pulling-out-parade in Police College, Ikeja, Lagos, a traditional ceremony to mark officers’ retirement from service, it was held with pomp as the final process was the pulling out of the force. As is also traditionally done, after a quarter guard was mounted in his honour, columns of almost 1000 officers in police ceremonial dress held the grand parade led by Baba Sanchi Mikail, a Superintendent of Police. Dignitaries Another high point of the ceremony was the sheer force of dignitaries that honoured him. They include the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi; Oba of Lagos, Oba Riliwanu Akiolu; retired IG and Chairman, Police Service Commission, Mr Musiliu Smith; the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye; the General Overseer of the Winners Chapel, Pastor David Oyedepo; DIG in charge of Finance – Mr Baba Alkali, Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, and many top police officers, Other dignitaries at the event included Senator Ibikunle Amosun, Senator Ganiyu Solomon; retired DIG Babatunde Peter Ogunyanwo; the Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) in charge of Zone ‘2’ Headquarters, Lagos, Mr Ahmed Iliyasu; the Oyo State CP – Joe Enwonwu; Edo State CP – Babatunde Johnson Kokumo; Ondo State CP – Bolaji Salami; Ogun State CP – Edward Ajogun, the Commandant at the Police College, Ikeja – CP Olasupo Ajani, and DCP Yetunde Longe of State CID Panti. Encomiums As expected, encomiums poured in for the consummate cop. Inspector General of Police (IG) Sunday Ehindero (Rtd) while speaking, said he trained Oyebade and about 70 others in 1986. He said: “It is not coincidental that it is in this college that we are conducting the pullout of Leye. He excelled during the training as the best all-round cadet and he was awarded a Sword of Honour. I recollect advising the cadets passing out of the college to make a career of police and take the tide at the flood. “Leye Oyebade took advantage of the flood and high tide to make a fortune and career in the police force. In his career in the Nigeria Police Force, he held sensitive post, including my PSO 2 when I was IG in 2005. He was DCP State CID, Panti, Lagos; he was AIG in charge of Zone 11, comprising Ondo, Oyo, and Osun States; finally as DIG in charge of Research and Planning of the Nigeria Police Force, Leye Oyebade took advantage of the current when it was useful, and made a successful career in the police force. Today he is exiting the Nigeria Police after a successful career attaining the age of 60 years.“ Another of his former bosses, Chairman, Police Service Commission, Mr Musiliu Smith said: “Leye is close to us. He has been close to us because he happens to be a very, very sound officer. Not only knowing police duties very well it being a very good d