Mary Nnah Christmas is no doubt a time everyone looks forward to. It’s a time to unwind and spend time with family at the end of the year. This year has been particularly challenging with the COVID-19 pandemic, not just for adults but children too. As a parent, you are probably thinking of age appropriate holiday activities to treat them to. However, don’t forget about ensuring they have the right nutrition as well. So this Christmas, celebrate with your children by surprising them with delicious and nutritious meals. Try swapping their regular milk with age appropriate milk with DHA, made to meet your child’s age specific nutritional needs. Not only will your children enjoy a yummy meal, but this gift goes beyond the present moment as it helps to prepare them for the future. Here are 5 key reasons why a delicious and nutritious meal is a perfect gift! They deserve it What better way can you reward your children, they’ve made it through an unusual year experiencing school disruption & time away from friends due to the pandemic. Remember they were with you at home all through the lock down period learning from home and also cooperating with you to effectively work from home. So rewarding them with milk specially formulated for their age bracket will go a long way in making them merry this yuletide period. Nourishes them to stay smart, strong and healthy Apart from the general benefits of milk intake, age appropriate milk are specially formulated for children within an age group with specific nutrients to help them grow up strong and smart. For example, Peak 456 Growing Up Milk not only contains essential vitamins and minerals such as calcium for strong bones, protein for tissue repair but is also fortified with DHA – an Omega-3 Fatty acid that is essential for brain growth. Hence, right nutrition such as growing milk with DHA supports your children’s mental and physical development. Energizes them for the holiday activities The Christmas period is usually marked by different fun events that keep children physically engaged for a long period of time. A lot of energy is expended, and this needs to be continuously refuelled for healthy physical growth. Children need to be both physically and mentally alert. So give them foods that support them to remain smart and strong – such as growing up milk fortified with DHA. Prepares them ahead for school activities after the holidays As much as we all love holidays, they will definitely be over at some point. We will have to resume our normal daily routine; parents back to work and children back to school. Why not start early to prepare them for resumption. Nurture your children with meals that support them to reach their developmental milestones to help them thrive at school. Look for ways to add milk suitable for their age to their meals. Try complementing their meals with a glass of age appropriate milk with DHA, or add it to their pap, cereals and hot beverages. You will not only enrich their bodies to be strong but support their minds to remain sharp. Support their immune system Unfortunately, COVID-19 is still very much out there. While teaching children to continuously observe the precautionary measures of COVID-19, it’s even more important we invest in building their immune system with the right nutrients. Age appropriate dairy, like Peak 456 Growing Up Milk helps protect children’s health as they have nutrients such vitamin D, zinc, selenium, iron, and protein which support immunity. Ditch fizzy drinks for milk during this festive period. Are you already thinking of how to incorporate growing up milk with DHA into your 4 to 6 years old meals? Check out Peak 456 Growing Up Milk website (www.growupsmart.com.ng) for children friendly recipes that contain milk. Make mealtime this Christmas more than just a treat, give them the gift of the right nutrition to support their future. Peak 456 Growing Up Milk has been specially formulated for children from ages 4-6years to not just help them stay strong, but also sharpen their minds to stay smart all thanks to the Omega-3 fatty acid, DHA. DHA supports brain growth which happens in the first 5 years of life. Surprise your children this period with Peak 456 Growing Up Milk, and assist them to be strong, smart