• Rangers chasing flying start in Port Harcourt Teenager Abubakar Mohammed Gidado has expressed his readiness to utilize every opportunity to showcase his talent and uplift Jigawa Golden Stars as the 2020/21 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) gets underway today. Tipped as one of the young talents to shine in the league this season, the 15-year old star is set to make his NPFL debut for the Northern club side against Sunshine Stars one of the opening Match Day 1 fixtures in Kaduna. “ This is an opportunity for me to prove my talent in the league and to the world. I would be glad to give all my best for my club,” a confident Gidado said matter-of-factly. Snapped from Kingsgrant FC of Lagos, Gidado is delighted with the quality of players and standard in display at Jigawa Golden Stars which has helped him to settle down quickly even as he set his sight on the task ahead in new soccer season. He said: ”Since I arrived in this wonderful club, I have acquired more knowledge in term of my play; on and off the ball. And playing with more intelligent players has boosted my more confidence to play without any fear and I will always give my best for the growing of d club.” The attacking midfielder, who has advantage of using both left and right legs, is poised to play for top club in the world and be a great footballer in his generation. The five-feet tall midfielder is taking after his father, Abubakar Usman, who was also good attacking midfielder during his days at Jada United in Adamawa State as well as Tonnerre Kalala Club, Yaounde in Cameroon. Meanwhile, Technical Adviser of Rangers International F.C, Coach Salisu Yusuf has assured the club’s teaming supporters of a winning start in the match Day 1 fixture in Port-Harcourt against Rivers United. Coach Salisu who monitored his wards as they rounded off training in the morning of Christmas Day 2020 inside the main-bowl of Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, was optimistic of getting a good result against continental campaigners, Rivers United in the opening day fixture. The former Super Eagles coach in a chat, said, “My immediate task is always to win and we have worked so hard and I believe we will have a good result there.” On the result achieved by the ‘Pride of Rivers’ in the CAF Confederations cup giving them an edge in the encounter, the Rangers gaffer said, “That is football. You can win today but lose tomorrow. The most important thing is that we know what we want to play and how we want to go about it to get the result we want. My belief is that you can get any result anywhere and our target in Port-Harcourt is a positive result.” Coach Salisu sought for the prayers and continued support of the club’ followers as he hoped to take the team to the gloryland of trophies this season. Ahead of the clash that is expected to take place at the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium, Port-Harcourt, the Rangers gaffer have a full complement of his squad save for enterprising midfielder, Esor Achibong who is nursing a groin strain and Benin international, Charles Tiessor with a strained metatarsal.