By Yinka Kolawole The Osun State Governmet has announced the take over of the College of Health Sciences and the former LAUTECH Teaching Hospital in Osogbo, by the Osun State University (UNIOSUN). The government also approved the immediate renaming of the Teaching Hospital to UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital (UNIOSUNTH), Osogbo. This followed the dissolution of the joint ownership of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) by Oyo and Osun States after signing a Memorandum of Understanding to effect a new management structure of the institution. Based on the terms of the MoU, the National Universities Commission (NUC) handed over ownership of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso to the Oyo State Government, while the Osun State Government took over the College of Health Sciences in Osogbo and the LAUTECH Teaching Hospital. In a statement signed by the Osun State Commissioner for Education, Folorunso Bamisayemi, on behalf of the Osun LAUTECH Committee under the chairmanship of Professor Olu Aina, the new UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital will complement the main teaching hospital that is under construction, donated by Mr. and Mrs. Modupe and Folorunso Alakija. The statement read in part: “All consultants and other staff of the College of Health Sciences, as well as the Teaching Hospital in Osogbo are assured of job security under the new arrangement as nobody will suffer loss of job or income as a result of the separation of ownership. “The government wishes to advise staff and students of Osun extraction in Ogbomoso Campus of LAUTECH to please remain there as their interests have been well protected by the MoU signed by the two governors and there is no reason for any staff to panic as their rights, privileges and duties will be dictated by the terms of their contract of employment. “The Osun State Government has no reason to doubt the commitment and integrity of her counterpart in Oyo State as regards the faithful implementation of the MoU on job security and protection of students rights. Hence, there is no need for any panic induced mass transfer of workers of Osun extraction from Ogbomoso to Osun,” the statement read.