The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN) and the Special Adviser, Media and Publicity to the President, Mr. Femi Adesina have been vilified and castigated more than any other members of the Buhari’s cabinet. At the moment, the trio seems to have committed unpardonable crimes against the Nigerian masses. By virtue of Nigerian history, the trio is likely to be vindicated and celebrated by the Nigerian people after leaving office. The tragic memory of the extra judicial killings of harmless Nigerians in Odi, Bayelsa State and Zaki-Biam, Benue State has gone into oblivion. The principal actor of the unfortunate incident and some of his cabinet members are currently national heroes. One would have expected them to bury their heads in shame and retire from public space. Ironically, they have consistently lectured on topical national matters, endorsed political candidates and vied for elective posts without despicable reactions from the Nigerian masses. Lai Muhammad, Abubakar Malami and Femi Adesina would continue to defend the Buhari- led administration at all costs because they have nothing at stake. They are conversant with the historical precedent of Nigerian people. A people who usually fail to appraise and hold their political leaders accountable after leaving office but only sing their praises and hold them in high esteems. Many accolades await the trio after leaving office. They await numerous calls from professional associations, trade unions, students’ body and the Nigerian populace to deliver talks on their fields in relation to good governance. They may also be rewarded with honorary titles and elective posts by the people. Any of the present opposition parties may also request for their service eventually if entrusted with political power. Should the trio be blamed for their present action when it would definitely open more opportunities for them? President Muhammadu Buhari and his Chief of Staff, Ibrahim Gambari, are also living witnesses to this gesture. They were henchmen to General Sani Abacha dreaded military regime. And the duo has kept soaring momentarily in personal capacity. The Nigerian system would continue to produce hundreds of Lai Mohammed, Abubakar Malami and Femi Adesina. Even the resignation of any of them from Buhari’s cabinet won’t make a difference. A countless number of people will jostle for any vacancy and keep rationalizing the extra judicial killings, unlawful incarceration, insecurity and bad economy bedevilling the nation. The Nigerian masses must demand and work towards where public office holders face dire consequences for working against the wishes of the people. Binzak Azeez, Faculty of Law, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife