ZigZag Nation, a financial technology platform designed to empower Nigerian youths, has been launched. The online platform, which is about empowerment of an online community of people into limelight, offers empowerment opportunities for the under privileged and unheard youths of the society who have talent and have something to offer to the society. Speaking at the launch in Lagos recently, the Founder of ZigZag Nation, Mr. Obafemi Giwa-Amu, said: “With Nigerian youths accounting for over 70 per cent of the nation’s population, it becomes necessary to arm the populace with a platform with which positive energy can be channeled to higher productivity. The ZigZag Nation is a highly interactive cyberspace with main focus on young demographics between 15 and 35 years of age, but nevertheless, older persons are also targets.” He said eligible persons for full mentorship would be immediately equipped with a starter pack comprising a debit card to support operations of an e-wallet, a call-free SIM card for easy communication with the ZigZag online community, including a Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) locker for warehousing of purchased items. He explained that members would have access to a robust e-Commerce platform where shopping or international trade is made easy from the comfort of homes, workplaces, and schools, among other places. According to Giwa-Amu, “We have lots of SMEs that have great skills and idea, but they are not empowered to grow. So we have a financial technology platform called the ZigZag Nation, where people could access online and get empowered. We are collaborating the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) and some major banks to drive this initiative. “Nigeria is gradually slipping into another round of recession and we need to edge it by empowering more Nigerians so that there will be something for everyone to do, which means more money in circulation. In ZigZag Nation, we have investment advisers who will look at the various business proposals and give professional advice. “Our platform has been designed to accommodate people from all sectors of the economy. An Arts person with beautiful painting of an image can upload it on the platform and because it is an online platform, people all over the world will get to see it and could be liked by someone from far away Canada who will be willing to make handsome donation to obtain it.” Speaking on the rollout strategies, Giwa-Amu said: “ZigZag Financial Technology platform was developed to empower Nigerians. We plan to go from campus to campus, and to different organisations by next year, for an aggressive marketing campaign that will bring everybody on board the ZigZag Nation platform. We also plan to leverage on large hubs and the social media and we are targeting 1 million people per state of location assigned.”