Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja One soldier and 20 terrorists were killed during a firefight in Uba Askira, a border town situated between Borno and Adamawa States. A military update said insurgents in 15 gun trucks attacked Uba Askira. This is coming as troops of Operation Whirl Sroke, at the weekend raided some identified armed bandits hideouts at Tomatar Ugba and Kundi villages in Mbacher council ward of Katsina-Ala Local Government Area of Benue State following actionable technical and human intelligence reports. The terrorists who were suspected to have come from Sambisa Forest, mounted on over 15 gun trucks and approached the town from different directions simultaneously. Troops responded and engaged the criminals with superior fire power. The update signed by Deputy Director Army Public Relations, 7 Division of the Nigerian Army, Maiduguri, Colonel Ado Isa, said the terrorists suffered huge losses both in men, materials and equipment. It said troops of 28 Task Force Brigade of Sector 1 Operation Lafiya Dole inflicted heavy casualties on the terrorists. The upate added that the troops captured four gun trucks from the criminals while some additional gun trucks were also destroyed by the Air Task Force that responded swiftly. “Scores of the terrorists were killed and over 20 terrorists dead bodies were counted. Additionally, three boxer motorcycles, three anti-aircraft guns, two PKT machine guns, 10 AK 47 rifles and 13 Rocket Propelled Grenade (RPG) bombs as well as large cache of ammunition and other weapons were captured from the terrorists among others. “Unfortunately, one soldier paid the supreme sacrifice and two others were wounded during the encounter and are stable and responding to treatment. May God grant repose to the soul of the dead soldier and quick recovery to the two wounded in action soldiers”, it said. The update further stated that troops of Operation Lafiya Dole under the guidance of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Tukur Buratai, would continue to sustain the aggressive, offensive posture to rid the entire North-east of remnants of Boko Haram and ISWAP criminals, rapists and marauders. Meanwhile, troops of Operation Whirl Stroke, raided some identified armed bandits hideouts at Tomatar Ugba and Kundi villages in Mbacher council ward of Katsina-Ala Local Government Area of Benue State following actionable technical and human intelligence reports. Another update signed by the Coordinator of the Defence Media Operations (DDMO), Major General John Enenche, said the gallant troops stormed the camps, engaged and overwhelmed the criminals with aggressive firepower, forcing them to flee in disarray. It said the undaunted troops, however, pursued the fleeing criminals and effectively neutralised three of them while several others fled with fatal gunshot injuries. “Troops, however, successfully apprehended four of the fleeing bandits. Furthermore, troops recovered two locally made rifles, one locally made pistol, 16 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, two motorcycles, theee generators, two pairs of military camouflage uniforms, a large quantity of substances suspected to Indian hemp, amongst other items. It said troops are presently dominating the area with aggressive patrols and are equally on the trail of the fleeing bandits in order to locate and neutralise them.