FCT task force begins enforcement The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Commissioner of Police, Bala Ciroma, has cautioned worship centres, the transport sector, markets places among others to henceforth adhere to the COVID-19 protocols or face the law. The enforcement task force began the enlightenment and enforcement of the safety protocols in strategic places yesterday within Abuja. During the commencement of the exercise, Ciroma who is also the chairman of the task force expressed sadness that the upsurge is getting alarming. He said the measures put in place would save people from contracting the virus, especially in public places. The CP said with the commencement of enforcement there would be adequate enlightenment, admitting that most of the residents are no longer adhering to the safety protocols. He vowed to continue the enforcement until the desired is archived. Ciroma who led the combined team of key security agencies, said: “it is the responsibility of all security personnel to go out and ensure that members of the public comply with the safety measures. “We have observed that most people don’t use nose mask, some drivers overload their vehicles. But the essence of obeying the safety guidelines is to curb spread especially in this second wave. “The second wave of COVID-19 is deadlier than the first one. And therefore all hands need to be on deck to check the spread. Our training gives us room to prevent the spread of COVID-19. We must enforce the COVID-19 protocol. We have to do it for humanity and our own good because if we do not contain the spread of this pandemic it may end up consuming us. “We must go out and ensure that the protocols are obeyed in worship centers, market places, supermarkets, transportation sector, parks and recreation centers among other places. “We have commenced today and we will continually enforce until the desired result is achieved. We will have Mobile courts to assist conduct trial offenders. It will be instant justice. “We have a dual role. We will enforce the law and also engage in public enlightenment and education. You should go and perform your duty with all decorum that is required to make this exercise a success. “There is a lot to be done. A lot of people are not complying with the COVID-19 protocol. There is a lot of overloading in transportation. Everybody should take responsibility for his health. Every responsible person should get the face masks”. The Head Publicity and Enlightenment, FCT COVID-19 Enforcement Task Force, Attah Ikharo, said the exercise is meant to halt the spread of the virus in Abuja, adding that people must comply. He said: “the purpose of this exercise is to make people key into the agenda to keep Abuja COVID-19 free especially the measures put in place by the government to safeguard lives,” he said. Attah called on the residents to protect their lives by keeping to all the measures put in place. He disclosed that: “today is the first day of the enforcement, we arrest about 20 persons and about 10 vehicles, but as the first day of enforcement we have mercy on them and ask them to go and sin no more”. The enforcement exercise started at Eagle Square to Wuse market, Berger round-about, Federal Secretariat and terminated at Banex plaza in Wuse 2.