By Femi Solaja Super Falcons Captain, Asisat Oshoala, scored a brace yesterday as Barcelona Femeni hammered Deportivo de la Coruna 6-1. Oshoala who was yesterday voted Queen of the Pitch at the 7th Nigeria Pitch Award in Lagos celebrated the feat by scoring Barcelona’s third and fifth goals in the clash with the Deportivo Ladies. The 26-year-old was in action for all. She has now scored nine goals in 10 league appearances for the Blaugurana this season. She also has a goal to show for her fine form in the UEFA Women’s Champions League. Other players who were also on the Barca Femeni scoresheet yesterday include; Jenni Hermoso (brace), Aitana Bonmati and Marta Torrejon. The Barcelona ladies are at the summit of the women’s topflight with 30 points from 10 games. Meanwhile, the four-time African Footballer of the Year winner Oshoala and other stars of the dominant Barca Femeni will have a date with history when they play their first ever match at the famous Camp Nou stadium of the men’s team. A statement on the club’s website yesterday announced that Barca Femeni’s first league match of 2021 which is against Espayol FC ladies will come up on January 6th at the stadium to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the first match played by the team. Barca Femeni have been playing all their home matches at the Estadi Johan Cruyff but will relocate to Camp Nou to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the match that women’s side Selecció Ciutat Barcelona -considered the ‘embryo’ of Barça’s women’s football setup- played there on December 25th, 1970. According to the statement, on Christmas Day in 1970, the Barça pioneers, under the name Selecció Ciutat Barcelona coached by legendary former goalkeeper, Antoni Ramallets, played a match against Unió Esportiva Centelles, as a prelude to a first team match against CSKA Sofía. That game at the Camp Nou, which ended in a goalless draw, took place in front of 60,000 people, and it became part of Barça Women’s history -even though at that time they could not wear the club colours or use the club name, as they were not officially part of it.