By Segun Awofadeji About 150 youths from Bauchi and Gombe States have commenced a two-day training in leadership and governance skills organised by a non-governmental organisation, Lead Generation Initiative (LGI). The Founder of the NGO and member representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola and Iwajowa constituency of Oyo State in the House of Representatives, Hon. Shina Abiola Peller, while declaring the training open last weekend at the Double4 Conference hall in Bauchi, explained that the training tagged: ‘Get Involved in Leadership Training’, would further expose the youths to receive training on nation-building, civic responsibilities, and political organisation and mobilisation, adding that at the end of the training, the youths will become a trainer in their respective communities. THISDAY checks revealed that the mode of selection for training is two youths per local government area in the respective states with two representatives from the northern region. He said the organisation was established to create opportunities for young people to channel their creativity, energy and aspirations to add value to their communities. According to Peller, “We are aware that the voice of every young Nigerian needs to be heard. We want to galvanise, train, support and raise the voices and stake of the Nigerian youths. We are building a new generation of young people who can take responsibility for fixing their communities and country through active participation in the socio-political process. “When we came up with LGI, I saw the importance of doing this because I believe that in Nigeria, our problem is not the government, but national orientation. I believe orientation is the key factor that is affecting the growth of our country, which is not just limited to the government, but also to the governed as well, and a training like this-‘Get involved leadership training’, is very important to prepare us for the task ahead.” He added that: “The organisation has already done two editions of the training. The median edition was done in Oyo State, where I hail from, while the second edition was done in Osun State. Although the new generation initiative is going to be officially unveiled on January 21, 2021, we understand the importance of preparing ourselves and creating a structure which we can use to achieve our aim. That is why we have been going from one state to another to identify like-minds.” Also speaking at the event, the Secretary of Lead Generation Initiative, Ekpa Stanley Ekpa, said Yiaga Africa was engaged to teach the participants at the workshop, pointing out that the organisation sponsor different types of trainings, which include youth and women leadership development programmes, and creativity and craft programmes, all aimed at supporting youths’ entrepreneurship.