Omon-Julius Onabu in Asaba Amid the widespread insecurity challenges in the country, traditional rulers in Delta State have resolved to pool resources together towards promoting a more robust ethnic harmony based on mutual trust, cooperation and understanding among the diverse ethnic nationalities in the state. They described deliberate efforts at ethnic harmony as a panacea to douse inter-ethnic tension and persistent insecurity in Nigeria, urging traditional rulers nationwide to brace up for the challenge of engendering peace and security. Rising from an enlarged one-day consultative meeting between the Delta State Council of Traditional Rulers and Non-council members at Owa-Oyibu, the administrative headquarters of Ika North-East Local Government Area, the royal fathers said they could not sit back and watch as the security situation degenerates. In a five-point communiqué read by the Chairman of the Council, the Obi of Owa Kingdom, Dr. Emmanuel Efeizomor II, the monarchs pledged to adopt conflict resolution mechanism and peace building measures toward averting crisis in their various domains. While acknowledging the developmental initiatives of the state government, the royal fathers said the peace-building efforts and local security architecture introduced by the state government were worthy of commendation. They also assured the people of their commitment to galvanising the rich cultural and traditional endowments of their respective kingdoms to the advantage of the people. Earlier, the non-council members called for improved welfare to enable them cope with the demands of their position, expressing their desire for inclusion into the state traditional council. They also drew the attention of the council leadership to the increasing incidence of self-imposed monarchs, saying the trend should be halted to preserve the sanctity of the traditional institution. While responding to some of the concerns raised, the second Vice Chairman of Council and Pere of Akugbene-Mein, Kalanama VIII, said the meeting was to foster better cooperation and unity among them, assuring them that resolutions reached would be conveyed to appropriate authorities for possible implementation. Traditional rulers from across the three senatorial districts of the state, including the Ovie of Ozoro, the Ovie of Agbon Kingdom, HRM Ukori I, and the Ovie of Ijerhe, HRM Monday Ovie-Whiskey Udurhie I, also attended the consultation meeting.