Says over 1,000 weapons recovered since he assumed office Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The Governor of Zamfara State, Bello Matawalle, has said 2, 000 kidnapped Nigerians and foreign nationals have been rescued and over 1,000 weapons recovered from bandits since his assumption of office. The governor said that the feat was made possible by members of vigilante group operating in the state. Matawalle said this while receiving the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) Uche Secondus in Abuja to condole him on the loss of eight members of the Emir’s entourage. He said that no ransom was paid in the rescuing of kidnapped victims in the state, adding that logic and dialogue had always been deployed. The governor stated that President Muhammadu Buhari was adequately briefed on every security measure undertaken to secure lives and properties. Matawalle expressed his resolve to support security agencies in the state to win the war against insecurity, stressing that it was the reason behind his decision to operate an open-door policy with the agencies to enhance the free flow of communication. According to him, “we have recovered a lot of dangerous weapons which was given to the security agencies of Nigeria and we have rescued about 2,000 kidnapped victims including some foreign nationals. “This includes people from China, Korea, Niger Republic, Burkina Faso and even Central Africa who were kidnapped and taken to Zamfara state. “All we are concerned with is to see our people go to sleep with their eyes closed and that is the responsibility of every government to provide security for the lives and properties of which we are doing,” the governor said. Matawalle urged all state governors to put aside political differences and put a united front to rid the country of all criminal elements and activities, especially banditry. Secondus while speaking warned that in the absence of law and order there would be anarchy. The PDP chair warned against the politicising of security and hunger which according to him, knows no party. He described as an “uncommon feat” in the rescue of the over 300 students of Government Science Secondary abducted in Katsina State. He added that PDP governors were the reason behind the sustainance of democracy in the country.