By James Emejo The Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has showered accolades on the immediate past Director General/Chief Executive, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside for a remarkable career and contributions to the growth of the Niger Delta as well as the socio-economic development of the country over the years. The governor also described the former NIMASA boss as one of the most outstanding men to emerge from Rivers State. Sanwo-Olu, while congratulating Peterside on his 50th birthday celebration, further described the latter as a “wonderful friend and brother, a brilliant administrator, astute politician and a competent leadership expert”, who is always prepared to give his best “as long as it is for the greater good”. The governor also extoled the celebrant’s dedication to the socio-economic development of the country as well as his passion for service and desire to see others grow. Sanwo-Olu specifically high-lighted Peterside’s commitment to maritime security, as well as pushing for necessary reforms in the oil and gas sector. He said: “You have unwaveringly shown your commitment to maritime security and I am positive that your footprints will never be erased at the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agenc, where in addition to your numerous achievements, you vigorously advocated for the implementation of Nigeria’s Cabotage Act. “You leave a progressively indelible mark everywhere go – your contributions at the House of Representatives will never be forgotten as your time there was characterised by deligenc, commitment to good governance as well as love and empathy for others.” Sanwo-Olu said Peterside has remained consistent over the years, adding that “I am proud to call you a distinguished public servant and an avid reformer”. “As you celebrate this milestone, I am hopeful that your life will remain impactful, inspirational and dedicated to public service. It is my prayer that you continue to enjoy good health and the grace of God. May the next 50 years be more fulfilling and productive,” he said.