Raheem Akingbolu
Wakaati Television has made its debut into the country to revamp the entertainment industry. The company during the unveiling ceremony of its digital station in Lagos, recently, affirmed that Wakaati Television which is on StarTimes Channel 100 and also streamed online has come to change the entertainment landscape into a more likeable and appreciable standard by producing original and recent contents. It will also be showcasing Nollywood blockbuster movies across its platforms. Reiterating the company’s position, the MD/CEO of Wakaati Network Limited, Mr. Olurotimi Akingbogun said: “I have over the years monitored the entertainment industry and the e-commerce in Nigeria, and I have noticed some relapses. And the best way to correct these shortcomings to me is just to establish a firm in that direction. “Wakaati Television will leverage on the relapses to forge ahead and make unimaginable impacts in the system. We are going to effect positive changes that will soothe people’s mind and reposition the industry in the right perspective.
“We have good contents that we will be showcasing on our digital station. I mean unique and remarkable contents that will differentiate us totally from the rest,” he stated. Amazingly, the country’s Entertainment and Media Industry is expected to rise from $4.46 billion in 2018 to $10.5 billion market by the end of 2023, according to PWC’s Entertainment Outlook report. Meanwhile, with the unveiling of Wakaaki Television, the firm is set to make a difference and help grow the revenue base of the industry and at the same time produce resonating content of international standard that would project the African continent in positive light through its online movies streaming, video entertainment and content development that cuts across all genders such as movies, documentaries, cartoon, comedy, in depth report analysis and many more. Basically, the owner of Wakaati TV, Wakaati Network, has Wakaati Mart, Wakaati Online Stream and Wakaati Content Hub; the platforms that would help the firm further actualise its objectives. Wakaati Mart is an online marketplace platform where buyers meet sellers directly and Wakaati Online Stream is a platform where people can watch unlimited movies via subscription.
However, Head of Public Relations, Wakaati, Mr. Henry Awachuo stated that people often frowned at the insistent repeats of movies in the cable stations, an act that has really not gone down well with viewers.