By Nume Ekeghe Erisco Foods Limited has announced the appointment Mr. Nnamdi Umeofia as its new Managing Director and Mr. Adetokunbo Agbede as its Executive Director Operations. The President and Chief Executive Officer Erisco Foods Limited, in statement said the new appointments which becomes effective immediately, was in line towards attaining the company’s growth succession plan. He said: “In order to position our company for a better future, we have no choice to make plans for succession and that prompted us to promote the current Executive Director of operations to the Managing Director and the current the current General Manager to the Executive Director operations. “Our view and target are to make sure this company attains international heights as soon as possible. We are a practical indigenous company and we aspire to make a difference in our sector and impact Nigeria and also we would continue to thank our customers and Nigerians who buy our products.” The newly appointed MD is a graduate of the University of Michigan with a Bachelors in Accounting, Finance and Management science. He had previously worked in a top accounting firm in the United States of America before joining Erisco Foods limited in 2013. In his seven years at Erisco foods, he started off as the head of the accounting department and also supervised the quality control department as well as managing the out-states’ branches of the company. Before his appointment as the new Managing Director, he was the Executive Director Operations. He said: “I am honoured to be given this mantle of responsibility which is a testament to my dedication that has and would never be deterred. In my time working at Erisco Foods I have learnt we have to be flexible with how we run the company given the peculiarities in Nigeria, we are blessed to still be standing. We will continue to grow and continue to make Erisco foods limited a house hold brand that Nigerians will be proud of.” Also, Agbede has worked with Erisco Foods for 10 years, serving as the General Manager where he supported the CEO in formulating organisation and strategic plans and decisions, deploy winning strategies for excellent service delivery and building key alliances.