By Oghenevwede Ohwovoriole Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brig. Gen. Ibrahim Shuiabu, has warmed foreign graduates, especially those coming from fellow West African countries not to come to orientation camp with fake certificates. Shuiabu, in a statement yesterday by the Director, Press and Public Relations, Mrs. Adenike Adeyemi, warned prospective corps members with fake credentials to stay off its orientation camps across the country – as the scheme gets set for the 2020 Batch ‘A’ Orientation Course. NYSC added that anyone caught especially graduates from the universities in West African sub-region with the intent to undermine the integrity of its mobilisation process with fake certificates would be arrested and prosecuted. “NYSC scheme had put necessary mechanism in place to curb the enrolment of fake graduates for the orientation course, and would continue working diligently in that direction. The scheme has made tremendous achievements in the fight against unqualified graduates who try to infiltrate the scheme. “During the 2019 Batch ‘C’ online registration, over 20,000 foreign-trained Nigerians uploaded their results online. However, during the physical verification exercise, just 3,420 showed up, having been forewarned that anyone caught with fake certificate would be prosecuted,” he said. The statement added that the scheme recently had a meeting with the registrars and Student Affairs Officers of some African universities and read the riot act to them, including the vice chancellors, rectors and provosts of corps producing institutions in the country on the need to sanitise the mobilisation process. Stating that the NYSC alone could not do it, the statement said the corps needs other stakeholders to assist it and used the opportunity to appeal to Nigerian youths and members of the public to do the right thing and not break the law. “I want to appeal to our youths to do the right thing and not to cut corners in whatever they do in life, because there is always reward for hard work. “Members of the public should not fall prey to the antics of online scammers that promise preferential deployment, internal posting, relocation and other services for a fee,” he advised. He urged them to always visit the scheme’s website and NYSC state secretariats nationwide to make enquires on issues concerning the scheme instead of falling victim to the fraudsters. Shuiabu hinted that plans were underway to turn the Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) centre in Gombe State into a training institute where youths in the North-eastern part of the country would be trained on skill acquisition which would in turn reduce the level of unemployment among the youths in the country.