 Francis Sardauna in Katsina No fewer than 30 persons have been killed
in a fresh attack launched by suspected armed bandits in Tsauwa and Dankar
villages of Batsari Local Government Areas, Katsina State. According to residents of the villages, the
suspected bandits, numbering about 50 on motorcycles launched the fresh
onslaught on the villages at about 6:45pm, which rendered many of them
homeless. They claimed that the attack on the
villages forced hundreds of residents to flee their ancestral homes to Batsari,
the headquarters of Batsari local government area. While the bandits met stiff resistance in
Dankar from the security operatives and residents, the residents claimed that
they had a field day in Tsauwa where they sacked the villages, destroyed and
looted shops and rustled an unspecified numbers of cattle. The state governor, Alhaji Aminu Masari had
granted amnesty to bandits after a tour to Fulani settlements and strong
enclaves of the bandits in Rugu Forest on September 4-9, 2019 during which the
bandits and forest commanders denounced banditry and accepted peace. Other governors of states in the North-west
had adopted the peace initiative after a peace summit the Inspector General of
Police, Mohammed Adamu convened in Katsina. The initiative had culminated in
discussions with representatives of the bandits from the affected States of
Katsina, Kebbi, Niger, Sokoto, Kaduna and Zamfara States. Five months after the Katsina State
Government granted amnesty to repentant bandits, residents of the state had
claimed that the peace accord had collapsed citing renewed armed attacks and
nefarious activities in the state. THISDAY visited the affected communities
amidst tight security, observing that the hoodlums burnt most of the victims
beyond recognition and left many in critical condition following gunshot
injuries they sustained. Reports revealed that those massacred by
the assailants “are mostly women, children and the elderly people who could not
run during the invasion, as those who survived the attack were leaving the
villages.” Speaking on the attack, the Ward Head of
Tsauwa, Salisu Lawal confirmed the attack, saying the bandits invaded the area
when they were observing Magrib (Muslim 7 O’clock prayer). He said: “We were observing Magrib
when the bandits riding on motorcycles laid siege on our village and started
shooting sporadically. They killed 23, injured some people and rustled many of
our cattle including sheep and goats. “The unfortunate thing is that we informed
the security agents of the bandits’ plan to invade our village but no action
was taken by them until after attack. We are calling on government to come to
our rescue.” He lamented that villages in Batsari local
government are under siege by armed bandits whom he said were launching attacks
on daily basis in the areas. Addressing journalists in Tsauwa village,
the Commissioner of Police, Sanusi Buba said the bandits killed 30 persons in
Tsauwa and Dankar villages. He said the bandits “killed 21 people in
Tsauwa village and nine at Dankar. When I got the information, myself in
conjunction with the army, we mobilised our officers and laid siege on the
communities. “You can see the terrain is very far
and there is no network but that notwithstanding we were able to come and
engage them to some extents they get scared and left. “Before our men could come, the
bandits set some houses ablaze in a selected manner. I don’t know what informed
this ungodly act. Whatever may be the reason, it is bad and sad”. The state police chief, however, vowed to
fish out the perpetrators of the attack, saying the state government had
contributed immensely in tackling bloodletting in the state.