 Emmanuel Ugwu in Umuahia Abia State capital, Umuahia, came to a standstill
yesterday as thousands of mourners flooded the city for the burial of His Royal
Majesty, Eze Israel Kanu and his wife, Ugoeze Sally, parents of the leader of
the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). The
Afaraukwu monarch died early December 2019 barely three months after his wife
passed on in circumstances their children linked to the destruction of their palace
during the military operation of September 14, 2017, which had forced them into
exile. Biafra
freedom songs rent the air as the bodies of the royal couple, who strongly
believed in the self-determination struggle being championed by their son
Nnamdi Kanu, were conveyed in a long procession through the major artery of the
capital city. The
ceremony passed off without any ugly incident despite the huge crowd that took
part in the traditional procession. The bodies were conveyed in separate
hearses with two horse riders leading the procession which commenced from
Madonna Hospital mortuary along Aba Road. From there the procession headed to
the headquarters of Umuahia North local government, then to Orie Ogwu Afaraukwu
market before they were taken their home and finally to the church. Before
the burial, there was altercation between the Abia State Police Command and
IPOB, whose members the police had threatened to arrest should they attend the
burial. There
was no government presence from the South-east governors. However many
dignitaries graced the occasion, including Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe,
presidential candidate of PDP and former governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter
Obi, and Senator Victor Umeh, among a host of prominent traditional rulers. But
there was no denying the fact that the various pro-Biafra groups thronged
Umuahia in their thousands, though without displaying their insignias, to pay
their last respect to the royal couple they regard as “father and mother
of Biafran struggle.” They
crowned the parents of the IPOB leader  
“saints” of the Biafra struggle” in their various
tributes, adding that the royal couple had paid “the ultimate price in the
Biafra restoration project.” Bishop of Anglican Diocese of Umuahia, Most
Rev. Geoffrey Ibeabuchi in his homily, said that the royal couple had lived
lives worthy of emulation. He
called on Nigerians to mend their ways as everyone would give account before
God of the kind of life they lived while on earth. In
their tribute read by the second son, Kingsley, the family of Eze Kanu praised
their parents for giving them proper upbringing and bequeathed to them
“opulence of health, education and a close knit family built on a
foundation of love for one another and knowledge of God.” Recalling
the role the couple played in supporting the Biafra cause, the family stated
that the lives and death of their parents “was ordained by heaven to usher
in an era of freedom not limited to Biafra alone but will extend to the whole
of black Africa and even beyond.” “In
that respect they remain immortals to every generation that will ever walk this
sacred land of Biafra. That is the greatest legacy, that is their gift to our
nation and one which God purposes for them,” the family said. Senator
Enyinnaya Abaribe, in his remarks lauded the Biafra activists for their
peaceful conduct, saying that it was a mark of respect to their elders who had
come to honour the royal couple. He
said that even in death the names of Eze Kanu and his wife, Sally would never
be wiped out in generations to come. Senator
Victor Umeh described Eze Kanu as “a great king” and lauded the
federal government for respecting the solemnity of the burial ceremony with the
peaceful conduct of the security agents. “They
have done well by allowing us to bury the 
monarch,” he said, adding that the tension generated in the run up
to the burial ceremony did not deter him as he had in fact, “prepared for
the worst.”