The beauty of marriage/marital life is that there is a multiplier effect at work at all times. Every word spoken, for instance, descends with twice the strength of one, twice the endurance, and twice the effects. But there has to be an alpha partner, hasn’t there? In the most powerful residence in Ondo State of Nigeria dwells the first power couple, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu and his wife, Mrs. Betty Akeredolu. This family, along with all the theatrics expected of any Nigerian state government, has dominated the Ondo State media airwaves for a while now. Unexpectedly, this extant development is more the action of the First Lady, than her lord. The rumour straddling the affairs of the state, especially as it has to do with the governor’s involvement in governance is that it is not Mr. Akeredolu that is snapping his fingers to get things underway and rolling, but Mrs. Akeredolu, who with the lay movement of a bespectacled eyeball could turn down the tireless brilliance of the midday Ondo Sun. To put the whole thing in a different light – if the rumours are to be believed, Mrs. Betty Akeredolu has taken multitasking to a whole new different level, having conveniently grasped the Ondo State governorship by its knickers, worn it, and is going about by her business – and that of the state’s. Familial inheritance could not have been grasped with a firmer confidence. Contractors are allegedly especially worse for wear as a result of the queen’s rule. The story goes that these folks are being hard-pressed to indulge their vocation. Every contract, it has been alleged, arrives on the heels of a 20 percent fee, which the First Lady oversees. However, having managed with unusual grace her household, who better to take charge of Ondo State? And so is the narrative being publicised about a First Lady who has become a governess, a wife transformed into a husband, and an executive seat splattered with the capsized hierarchy of a domiciliary status quo. Long live the State; long live the Governess.