 Victor
Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Ekiti State House of Assembly, yesterday, held a special
session to pass the Ekiti State Security Network Agency codenamed Amotekun bill
into law. The
assembly, whose members were supposed to observe constituency visit
yesterday,  shelved the legislative duty
to hold the special sitting to pass the bill speedily. The
bill passed through the first and second readings during  an extensive 
deliberation on the floor of the House, on Thursday, after the draft
bill was  transmitted by Governor Kayode
Fayemi to the House. Subsequently,  it was 
committed to the Committee of the House on Security and Special Duties,
headed by lawmaker representing Ekiti East Constituency  II, Hon. Lateef Akanle, who conducted a
public hearing attended by traditional rulers, farmers, driver unions, and
other stakeholders , on Thursday evening. At
yesterday’s proceeding, Akanle read the outcome of the public hearing at the
plennary, which included that  section 5
(I) of the Security Network  Bill the
governing board should be headed by a retired law enforcement agent, who should
be a man of proven integrity or equivalent in the Nigerian Army not below the
rank of  Major General. Exuding
confidence that the governor will be thorough with the  implementation after assent, the Speaker, Rt.
Hon.  Funminiyi Afuye, said: “we can
be rest assured that the implementation 
will be thorough, because we have not passed this bill in vain. “You
don’t need to preach to the converts. We have a governor who is an Amotekun
himself and we have not passed the bill in vain, so you can be rest assured
that the law will be accorded speedy assent by the governor,” he said. On
some amendments being sought to the final copy by members, Afuye added:
“you can’t get a perfect law anywhere and if you pass a law and if it
becomes problematic tomorrow, then the 
mechanism of amendment will set in. “Look at the Constitution of
the Federal Republic  of Nigeria, people
are still saying some aspects should be amended. So, those contentious areas
will be perfected at implementation level,” he assured. Afuye
commended the members of the security committee for the public hearing
conducted, saying they didn’t shortcuit any of the stipulated rules of the
House to arrive at the conclusion. The
Speaker  added that the report
encapsulated the views of the people , who are yearning for a well secured and
well protected environment. “I
commend your disposition  and call to
duty to serve your people. I pray that we shall continue to rise and rise
again.” There
was a heated debate on the qualification of who should head the board, as  the 
Deputy Speaker, Hon. Hakeem Jamiu and Hon. Adeoye Aribasoye, craved  for the reduction of  the rank of the chairman of the board should
be  reduced from Major General or
equivalent to a lower rank. Jamiu
said: “retired Major Generals are not easy to come by and when you see
them, they might be old or tired. So, let us bring down the scale to either
Brigadier General, Colonel or equivalent . “We
have to think ahead of implementation level, so that we won’t run into crisis.
How many Major Generals do we have around? Those that are still alive are old
for such position, so I move that we reduce the rank  to Brigadier General or Colonel or equivalent
in other law enforcement agencies,” he submitted. The
Leader of  Government Business, Hon.
Gboyega Aribisogan, said with the passage, the state had again exhibited  leadership by example and pacesetting feature
in the South-west. The
assembly at the sitting considered the Ekiti State Public Procurement Bill, at
the first reading.