Kasim Sumaina in Abuja The Minister of Mines and Steel
Development, Mr. Olamilenka Adegbite, has expressed displeasure about the non-integration
of artisanal small-scale miners into the national poverty alleviation and rural
development strategy. According to him, even though the
Act clearly assigns full responsibility of sector’s development to his
ministry, progressive development of the industry requires the involvement and
synergy of a broad range of public, private and non-governmental stakeholders. The minister disclosed this
recently in Abuja, in a keynote address he delivered at first public
stakeholder consultative meeting with artisanal miners. He said formalisation was the
only tried and tested pathway across the globe to retain economic and social
benefits as well as manage negative environmental, social, health and safety
impact of Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining (ASM) activities. He lamented that so
far, its the negative impact of ASM activities and not its social-economic
importance that had been more visible in Nigeria, noting that, “for instance,
we have seen how armed gangs have exploited the ASM operators and exacerbated
the security situation in Zamfara state. “We continue to experience
high levels of smuggling of minerals, particularly gold, gemstones and tin. It
has led to severe health challenges and deaths recorded in Niger and Zamfara
state from exposure to poisonous lead during gold processing, destroyed the
environment through high use of mercury in gold bearing communities,” he
said. Adegbite, stated that although
the country’s legal, regulatory and institutional framework for ASM was aligned
with global best practice, it has had limited success with its implementation. He noted that there are several
reasons for this but, “mostly, we have been constrained by weak
Institutional capacity and limited financial resources. Further, the ASM sector
has not been properly integrated into the national poverty alleviation and
rural development strategy.” The minister while expressing
optimism about the sector’s contribution to the economy, said, “to realise
these benefits and manage the negative impact, we have adopted a progressive
approach through building an enabling environment for the ASM sector.” According to him, we will achieve
this by strengthening our existing ASM formalisation process, incentivising
miners and traders to participate in the formal economy and improving our
effectiveness in monitoring the ASM sector. Through formalisation, we aim to
bridge the gap between the ASM mineral trade and gangs as well as illicit
trade. Continuing, he disclosed that to
improve regulatory enforcement effectiveness and efficiency, “we have
established a remote sensing unit within the ministry with all required
hardware and software. Through the unit, we now have the capacity for long term
monitoring of ASM and other mining operation to support decision making. “We will process satellite
imagery and Geographical Information Systems (GIS) data on ASM sites in the
unit. Clearly, the ASM sector can no longer be ignored and is here to stay. To
ignore the ASM sector is perilous,” he said.