 The outgoing Governor of Bayelsa State, Hon. Seriake Dickson,
was accorded standing ovation amidst commendations as he presided over his last
state executive council meeting as governor. The
valedictory meeting, the 114th session, which held in the Executive Council
Chambers at the Government House, Yenagoa, was attended by all members of
council. The
meeting commenced with a praise and worship session led by the Governor who
appreciated God for His blessings upon the people and government of the state
in the last eight years. Cabinet
members who took turns to speak, poured encomiums on Governor Dickson  not only for giving them the opportunity to
serve but also for providing quality transformational leadership for people of
the state and the Ijaw nation. In
his remarks, the Secretary to State Government, Barrister Kemela Okara,
acknowledged the Governor’s vision, courage and indomitable spirit with which
he pursued the development of the state and Ijaw nation. Barrister
Okara who described Governor Dickson as a politician of conviction, assured him
of the unalloyed support and commitment of the outgoing cabinet members to work
with him in task of providing support for the building the state. The
Chief of Staff, Government House, Mr. Talford Ongolo, described the outgoing
governor as a benefactor who positively affected his cabinet members in various
ways. Ongolo
also extolled Governor Dickson for his revolutionary developmental strides in
all sectors particularly in the areas of education, health and road
infrastructure and urged his colleagues to continually defend the
administration’s legacies. In
his contribution, the Special Adviser on Political Matters, Hon. Fyneman
Wilson, commended Dickson’s preference for collective decision-making and
teamwork. On
her part, the state Head of Service, Mrs Biobelemoye Charles-Onyema, hailed him
for the courage and passion he demonstrated in carrying out the public service
reforms to ensure effective service delivery in the state. Other
council members who spoke at the valedictory session include the former
Commissioner for Solid Mineral Resources, Mr. Markson Fefegha, Commissioner for
Youth Development, Mr. Ebipatei Apaingolo, and Attorney-General and
Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Arthur Seweniowor. Earlier,
Governor Dickson who formally declared the Council dissolved at about 1p.m.,
profusely thanked God and members of the Council for the achievements of the
Restoration Government. The
governor also expressed gratitude to people of the state for giving him the
opportunity to serve them in the past years. He
noted that the achievements of his administration would not have been possible
without the understanding and support of members of the cabinet. His
words, “It is only God, our miracle working and everlasting God, the
Creator of the universe and the author of life both great and small who could
have made this victory possible. So, we give Him all glory. “After
that, I will have to also thank the judiciary of Nigeria especially the
Justices of the Supreme Court who saw the truth and who have the courage to
pronounce the truth and to deliver justice. “Let
me also use this opportunity to sincerely thank all of you, members of council.
You have all demonstrated excellent commitment to work and showed the spirit of
the true Ijaw man in you. “Some
of you here were contestants in the last governorship election or supported
different candidates. But you have proved that the interest of our party, state
and Ijaw nation is paramount.” He
assured Bayelsans of his resolve to work for the continued peace, stability,
and development of the state even after leaving office. Describing
the Supreme Court victory of the Peoples Democratic Party as no victor, no
vanquished, the outgoing Bayelsa governor also reiterated his call on APC
leaders to prevail on their supporters to refrain from violence in the interest
of the state.