 Sunday Ehigiator LAPO Microfinance Bank, in collaboration with National Directorate of Employment (NDE), the National Business and Technical Examinations Board (NABTEB) and Ministry of Women Affairs (MWA), has trained about 600 entrepreneurs on different skills acquisition across the nation. The pilot
scheme, which started in January 2016, was undertaken in Lagos and Benin and
extended to other states in 2017, 2018 and 2019, to help small businesses grow. The training,
according to a statement by the Managing Director, LAPO MfB, Dr. Godwin
Ehigiamusoe, was in line with the sustainable development goals of the bank to
ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning
opportunities for all. “The
bank believes that beyond work-specific skills, emphasis must be placed on
developing high-level cognitive and non-cognitive/transferable skills, such as
problem solving, critical thinking, creativity, teamwork, communication skills
and conflict resolution, which can be used across a range of occupational
fields. “This belief
stimulated the bank to ensure that the same standard training is made
available to its clients’ children across the country in their respective
communities enabling them to acquire national standard training and become
future employers of labour.” The
statement further explained that, a core part of the training was the
promotion of female gender inclusion and empowerment of the girl child to
engage in the promotion of small scale businesses. “LAPO also
endeavours to pay for the cost of training and consumables on behalf of all
clients’ children at no recourse to the client. So far, the statement said
states that have benefitted in the acquisition till date  include Edo,
Lagos, Osun, Abuja, Kaduna, Ondo and Kwara states. “The
beneficiaries were trained in fashion design, ICT, catering, hair dressing,
textiles design, adult literacy, photography, automobile, interior decoration
and barbing. “The selection
of nominees was carried out during the bank’s branch council meetings organised
for branch customers and conducted in the same manner as the scholarship
selection and balloting process. The program runs concurrently with the
scholarship program for the process of nominating awardees,” he added.