 Tobi
Soniyi The All Progressives Congress has asked the Independent
National Electoral Commission to conduct a fresh governorship election in
Bayelsa State. The party in a letter to the commission said the
swearing-in of the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party as governor was
unconstitutional as he did not meet the mandatory constitutional requirement. The national chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, who
wrote the letter said the party accepted the supremacy of the Supreme Court
nullification of its governorship candidate’s victory, but argued that the
sworn-in candidate, Duoye Diri, also failed to meet the mandatory requirement
to become the governor. The letter, which was forwarded to the national chairman of
INEC, was titled,’ Judgement in Appeal No: SC.1/2020 between Peoples Democratic
Party Request for conduct of fresh governorship election in Bayelsa State’. The party argued that the apex court judgement did not void
the votes that the APC polled at the election and the implication of this is
that the votes of the party must be reckoned with. The letter reads: ‘’Kindly recall that the Governorship
election in Bayelsa State was conducted on the 16th November, 2019 and our
great party, the All Progressives Congress, duly participated at the said
election. You will also recall that the All Progressives Congress emerged
victorious at the election leading to our Lyon David Pereworinimi being
declared and returned as winner of the election,’’ the letter reads. ‘’Our attention has been drawn to the judgement of the
Supreme Court delivered on 14th February 2020 in the pre-election appeal filed
by the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) and its governorship as well as deputy
governorship,’’ Mr Oshiomhole ‘‘In the said judgement of the Supreme Court, the
candidature of our governorship and deputy governorship candidates were
nullified and the commission was ordered to issue fresh certificate of returns
with the highest number of votes and with the required geographical spread. ‘’It is however to be noted that the Supreme Court did not
void the votes that our party polled at the election and the implication of
this is that the votes of the All Progressives Congress must be reckoned with
in determining whether any other candidate polled majority of lawful votes cast
in one-quarter of at least two thirds majority of the state. ‘‘We have reviewed the judgement of the Supreme Court and
we are of the firm opinion that the candidates of the Peoples
Democratic Party cannot be issued certificate of return and or sworn in
as the Governor and Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State respectively. ‘‘We
are aware of that section 179(1)(b) of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria mandatorily requires a candidate for an election to the office of
governor of a state to have not less than one quarter of the votes cast at
the election in each of at least two thirds of all the local government areas
in the state before the candidate can be deemed to have been duly elected as
the Governor of the State. This mandatory requirement was affirmed by the supreme
court in the judgement under reference.” The letter highlighted that Bayelsa State has eight local
government areas, hence the two thirds of at least eight local government areas
will be approximated to six local government areas. “From the results announced and duly published by the
commission, it is clear that no candidates meet this mandatory constitutional
requirement, including the candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party who only
managed to poll one quarter of the votes cast in only five local government
areas. “The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party or any other
candidate whatsoever, none satisfies the requirement of one quarter of the
votes cast in at least 2/3 of the local government areas in the state as
required by the supreme court judgement further request that a fresh election
be conducted by the commission for the office of the Executive Governor of
Bayelsa State.”