By Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Police Command has raised the alarm over the incursion of a large number of commercial motorcyclists popularly called Okada riders into the state. It is believed that the motorcyclists are from Lagos State following the restriction placed on their activities by the state government. The Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, had last week banned commercial motorcyclists in 15 out of the 20 council areas of the state, which forced the affected people to move to other neighbouring states of Ogun, Oyo, Osun and Ekiti. The Ekiti State Commissioner of Police, Mr Asuquo Amba, alerted the public about the influx of persons suspected to be criminals into the state, expressing fear that such people if not tamed could unleash criminal acts and intention on the state. In a statement in Ado Ekiti on Friday by the command’s Public Relations Officer, Mr. Sunday Abutu, Amba said the suspected persons, in their multitude, entered the state with motorcycles under the guise of being commercial motorcyclists. “Information at our disposal has it that these suspected persons could cause criminal acts in no distant time, ranging from stealing, armed robbery and kidnapping. “In view of this, the Commissioner of Police has directed that all motorcycles across the state must be properly registered with the relevant authorities and relevant document of ownership/registration. “The police shall henceforth arrest, impound and prosecute anybody (motorcyclist) found perpetrating criminal acts. “The command, therefore, implores all the good citizens of Ekiti State to promptly report to the nearest police station or call the police control room GSM number on 08062335577 whenever they see any person or group of persons suspected to be criminals around their environs,” it said. The CP also advised landlords and caretakers to ascertain the proper identities of their present and future tenants to avoid harbouring criminals. “We seek the support and cooperation of the public and wish to assure the good people of Ekiti State of the command’s firm commitment to sustain the fight against crimes and criminality which has brought about the peace currently being enjoyed by the state,” it said.