 By Uba Sani As he turns 60 years today, it would have been apt for me to
say it is Mallam Nasir El – Rufai’s day. The challenge here is that it would
seem out of synch with the persona of the workaholic Governor of Kaduna State.
For one, he is not a celebratory person and even more important, Governor Nasir
El – Rufai, in spite of his sterling and sometimes unequalled achievements in
both the private and public sectors, still feels unfulfilled. Nevertheless, I join family members, the good people of
Kaduna State, teeming friends and associates to celebrate an extraordinary
Nigerian, a transformational leader of note, a patriot to the core and a first
class performer – the phenomenal Mallam Nasir el Rufai, as he turns 60 years
today. It is my prayer that Almighty Allah continues to protect him and imbue
him with even greater drive, intellect and good health as he continues to serve
not just Kaduna State but our great nation at large. It is truly difficult to speak or write about someone you are
so close to, and share a lot in common. Governor el Rufai and I started out as
acquaintances, then we became friends – during this period, I learnt a lot from
him as I accepted wholeheartedly his mentorship. While he served as the
Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, I witnessed firsthand his raw
energy, doggedness, uncommon intellect, clarity of thought and purpose and
even-handedness as he set out to restore the Abuja Master Plan. In fact,
President Olusegun Obasanjo who appointed him into that position in 2003, later
confessed that he head-hunted El – Rufai for the job because he knew that only
a ‘mad man’ could sanitise the Ministry of the Federal Capital Territory and
the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) which were then notorious as
bastions of corruption, ineptitude and land racketeering. Assisted by a dedicated team, Mallam Nasir El – Rufai
practically reworked Abuja and incredibly restored the Federal Capital
Territory’s original master plan. I dare aver that till date, his record as the
Minister of the FCT remains indelible and of course unequalled. Working closely
with Mallam El – Rufai at the FCT, I marveled at his ability to discharge the
onerous task entrusted to him by the President devoid of any iota of sentiment
or bias. Eventually, my relationship with Mallam Nasir El – Rufai
transcended friendship: he became an elder brother and close confidante.
Following his emergence in 2015 as the Governor of Kaduna State, he graciously
invited me to work with him to fix our dear state which had been ruined beyond
recognition by successive previous administrations. I did not hesitate a bit in
taking up this challenge. For four years I served as Governor Nasir El –
Rufai’s Special Adviser on Political and Inter-Governmental Matters. It was a
role that gave me a front row view, once again, of the tenacity of El Rufai,
even in spite of unprecedented odds. The situation in Kaduna State as at May
2015 when El Rufai took office as Governor was so bad that any ‘normal’ human
being would have panicked and given up early in the day. But Mallam El – Rufai
was created by Almighty God for tough tasks. The Governor rolled up his sleeves
and got all of us to do same and we all went to work! It is not my intention to use this short tribute to list the
achievements of Mallam Nasir El – Rufai as the Governor of Kaduna State. In any
case, the list is even too long for anyone to enumerate. However, I must
mention a few exceptional leadership lessons I learnt from Mallam Nasir El –
Rufai while I worked as his Special Adviser. The first is Courage. Typical of
El – Rufai, our first task in Kaduna was to dislodge traditionally entrenched
interests that were far from being altruistic. Mallam Nasir El – Rufai insists
at all times that an effective leader needs courage and must take tough
decisions, no matter whose ox is gored, for the greater good of the greatest
number of the people. On assumption of office in 2015, the El – Rufai
administration shockingly found out that a huge chunk of the State’s assets,
especially land, had been appropriated by persons who served in previous
administrations and their cronies. Even school fields and compounds were not
spared as private properties were found to have been erected in these places
and in some cases, private homes shared spaces with school hostels. Defying
petty criticisms and even threats to the life of the Governor and members of
his team, the administration proceeded to recover several of these government
assets from illegal occupiers and encroachers and eventually restored, reasonably,
the master plan of Kaduna State. I also learnt from Mallam Nasir El Rufai that the imperative
of transparency and accountability in governance can never be over emphasized.
El – Rufai believes that the processes of governing a people in a civil, democratic
administration should not be shrouded in secrecy. This undue confidentiality,
he insists, breeds corruption and impunity. To this end, the Governor has since
institutionalized the highest level of probity, transparency and accountability
in governing Kaduna State. He introduced the culture of town hall meetings, as
a necessary mechanism to constantly feel the pulse of the people of the State
with a view to getting regular feed backs that ultimately help shape the policy
direction of the Government. This regular interface with the citizenry at town
hall meetings has become a platform for the citizens and residents of the State
to have access to, and directly participate in the preparation of the State’s
annual budget estimates before the estimates are presented to the State’s House
of Assembly for further scrutiny and passage into law. This robust public
participation in the preparation of the State’s budget often lead to
far-reaching adjustments to the initial budgetary estimates of the State. While
in some States in Nigeria, the budget as passed by the State Assembly, is often
deemed a confidential document that is hardly seen, in Kaduna State however,
the people are the actual custodians of the budget. Being a transformational leader, Mallam Nasir El – Rufai
believes that the core components of government must be run like a business.
That is another lesson I learnt from him. For El – Rufai, in running a
government, virtually all the rules of the business sector must apply. It could
be recalled that shortly after the new administration assumed office in the
country in 2015, Nigeria’s economy went into a recession. Worse still, price of
crude oil, the nation’s main source of income, fell drastically in the
international market. Federal allocations to the States, expectedly shrunk. In
Kaduna State for example, by 2015, federal allocations to the State were not
even enough to service the huge monthly wage bill of the workers in the State’s
payroll. Governor El – Rufai is certainly not the type that would throw up his
hands in despair. Rather he set out immediately to create an economy for the
State outside allocations from the Federal Government. He pursued series of
homegrown options through effective collaboration with key players in the
private sector. His efforts paid off handsomely. Today, Kaduna State has become
the agricultural and agro-allied business hub of sub-Saharan Africa. However, Governor El – Rufai was well aware that to win and
retain the confidence of key players in the private sector both in Nigeria and
elsewhere he needed to urgently reform not just the Kaduna State public service
but the State’s tax regime. Never fail or fear to reform a system that is not
working, another lesson I learnt from El Rufai. 
Long before the Federal Government launched its Ease of Doing Business
Programme, the Kaduna State Government under Mallam Nasir El – Rufai had
already gone very far on that score. It could even be said that the success of
the efforts of the administration in Kaduna State spurred the Federal
Government to launch its own version of the programme. Expectedly, when Mallam El – Rufai commenced the series of
reforms, entrenched interests stood in stout opposition and called him all
manner of names and even went as far as inciting the citizenry against him.
Like all great leaders, Governor El – Rufai understood that far-reaching
reforms, no matter how well intended, would always face stiff opposition. He
was therefore resolute and totally undeterred. Today, the public service in
Kaduna State has become lean, driven and purposeful; the tax regime in the
State has become the most investment-friendly taxation system in the country.
Among other gains, the reform has given birth to a totally revamped Kaduna
State Revenue Board, with the right impetus, personnel and laws to raise the
much needed finances for the State. The result of the reform is out there for
all to see: in 2017, the Kaduna State Internally Generated Revenue increased
from N11.8billion in 2015 to N26.53billion, then to N30billion by 2018 and by
2019 to over N44 billion. To win the confidence of private investors, the Kaduna State
Tax Codification and Consolidation Law, 2016, centralised and automated tax
collection. It also put in place flexible payment system, implementation of
presumptive and consumption tax regime and harmonised Local Government Area
(LGA) demand notice. Similarly, the new law prohibited cash collection thereby
blocking leakages. Indeed, the tax regime in Kaduna State has become so
automated that the revenue service now issues electronic tax clearance
certificate that can be verified online by third parties. Owing to the tenacity of Mallam Nasir El – Rufai, Kaduna
State has become Nigeria’s number one destination for both local and foreign
investors. They are investing in virtually all sectors including agriculture,
mining, petrochemical, bio-fuel and so on. Conscious of the fact that these huge investments in the
State must be complimented with first class infrastructure, Governor Nasir El –
Rufai has since assumption of office in 2015 been investing heavily in massive
road projects across the state at the lowest possible costs. Major roads in the
State have become beauties to behold. In the same regard, massive investments
are being made in the building and rehabilitation of schools and hospitals as
well as in the provision of pipe-borne water across the State. Perhaps, Mallam Nasir El – Rufai’s greatest asset is loyalty.
Another lesson I have since learnt: be loyal to friends and associates in all
circumstances. My dear friend and elder brother, Mallam Nasir El – Rufai can
actually go to war for any trusted friend or associate. I even think his
loyalty to friends could sometimes be excessive. But again, I have come to
realize that it is one of his greatest assets. I am personally a beneficiary of
Mallam Nasir El – Rufai’s loyalty. His firm and unwavering backing and the
grace of God aided in no small way, my election into the Senate of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria. I shall remain eternally grateful to him for this and much
more. As he clocks 60 today, I pray that Mallam Nasir El – Rufai’s sun
continues to shine. •Senator Uba Sani (representing Kaduna Central) is the
Chairman, Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and other Financial
Institutions