 The Group
Chief Executive Officer of Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI),
Mr. Ade Ayeyemi, has said Nigeria has the capacity to feed Africa’s
estimated 1.2 billion people if it harnesses the gains of its agricultural
value chain. According
to the Ecobank boss, success in Nigeria’s agricultural sector means reduction
in the demand for foreign exchange to import food items into the country
and the development of the agribusiness value-chain with a resultant effect
in the creation of a new breed of entrepreneurs as well as jobs for the teeming
population. Ayeyemi, said this in Lagos, at the Ecobank
Agribusiness Summit in Lagos. The summit had its theme “Unlocking Productivity
and Investment Opportunities Across Nigeria’s Agribusiness Value Chain” According to Ayeyemi, Ecobank decided to create the summit
to enable thought-leaders who are passionate about agriculture and its
importance to Nigeria’s economy to put heads together and find ways to maximise
the significant potential gains of boosting agribusiness in Nigeria. He said Ecobank works with various governments and
businesses within its footprint to provide support in harnessing and mining
value from the huge natural resources across the continent. “The success of this summit and its objectives is
therefore important to Ecobank, as we do know Africa remains fully committed to
contributing to its economic development – a core objective of our founders,” he
added. Also speaking at the event, the Minister of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Mohammed Nanono, affirmed that the
administration of President Mohammadu Buhari was committed to finding a lasting
solution to issues bothering on food security affecting the country. Nanono, who was represented by
the Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mustapha Baba
Shehuri, also stressed the need for viable synergy and collaboration between
relevant stakeholders in the agricultural sector, so as to further promote its
contribution to the Gross Domestic Products (GDP) of the country. “Nigeria’s potential and
prospects, makes the agricultural sector a pilot for economic stabilization,
diversification and growth in the country. “Indeed, the sector is a major
contributor to the national Gross Domestic Product (GDP), contributing about 27
percent to the GDP and the biggest in job creation in the non-oil sector. “At present, the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development is promoting and supporting the
development of special agro-industrial processing funds, in collaboration with
the African Development Bank (ADB) for value addition, import substitution, job
creation and international market. “Commitment and support would continue to be
given to the areas of promoting foreign and local enterprise to advance level
of credit and investment in agriculture as a veritable step to diversify the
economy. “Within the overall sets of
policy principles, the federal government is concentrating on providing an
enabling environment and enabling playgrounds for stakeholders at all levels,
to enhance investment and capital flow into the sector,” he added. The maiden Ecobank Agribusiness summit
in partnership with Vanguard Newspapers had exhibitors and participants from
within and outside the country in attendance.