Femi Adesina  Chuks Okocha and Alex Enumah in Abuja Justice Anwuli Chikere of the Federal High
Court in Abuja yesterday restrained the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC) from carrying out its planned de-registration of  31 political parties, pending the hearing of
a suit challenging the powers of INEC to delist them. The restraining order came 11 days after
the commission had deregistered 74 political parties with 31 of them seeking a
judicial review of INEC’s decision. But in a swift reaction, the electoral body
faulted the ruling, stating that a court cannot restrain it for an event that
has already taken place. Justice Chikere gave the order in a ruling
on an interlocutory injunction brought against the Attorney-General of the Federation
and Minister of Justice and INEC by the 31 political parties. Justice Chikere  adjourned till February 27 for hearing in the
substantive suit. The court had on January 23 fixed ruling
for yesterday after counsel to the plaintiffs, Mr. Kehinde Edun, had moved and
argued the interlocutory motion. The plaintiffs, Advanced Congress of
Democrats (ACD), Advanced Nigerian Democratic Party (ANDP), All Blending Party
(ABP) and 28 others had in March last year sued the AGF and INEC at the Federal
High Court over the planned de-registeration of political parties. Justice Chikere in the ruling held that the
plaintiffs have legal rights, which must be protected and consequently ordered
the defendants to maintain status quo pending the hearing and determination of
the main suit. In the main suit with number:
FHC/ABJ/CS/444/2019, the plaintiffs asked the court to determine whether the
provisions of sections 225A b(I) , b(ii), c(I), c(ii) c(iii) of the 1999
Constitution, introduced by the 4th Alteration Act number 9 of 2017, are to be
construed disjunctively/alternatively or whether they are to be construed  conjunctively. “Whether the 2nd defendant can
exercise any power under section 225A (b) and (c) of the 1999 Constitution
without conclusive and democratic elections be first heard and concluded into
all electoral constituencies of the federation. “Whether having regards to the lack of
authority by the second defendant to conduct and determine the winners for
chairmanship and councillorship elections into local government and wards in
the federation the second defendant should be allowed to exercise power to
de-register political parties for failure to win election into such seats”
and others. The plaintiffs said if the above questions
are in the affirmative, the court should declare that the provisions of
sections 225A b(I) , b(ii), c(I), c(ii) c(iii) of the 1999 Constitution,
introduced by the 4th Alteration Act number 9 of 2017, are intended to be
construed dis-junctively. “A declaration that the power
conferred on the second defendant by section 225A (b) and (c) of the 1999
Constitution to de-register political parties could not have been intended to
have any retroactive effect and as such election into all electoral
constituencies must first be held before the power of the second defendant
under this can accrue,” they averred. They, 
therefore, prayed the court for an order of injunction restraining the
second defendant from exercising the powers conferred on it by section 225A
(1)) and (c) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 until
conclusive and democratic elections are held into the presidency, all
governorship, National Assembly, State Assembly, local government chairmanship
and councillorship positions in the federation, which elections must have been
held after this section was introduced. “An order of injunction restraining
the second defendant from exercising its powers to de-register the plaintiffs
or any political party for that matter as the second defendant does not have
the powers to conduct elections into all the positions listed in section 225
A(b) and (c) of the 1999 constitution. “An order of injunction restraining
the second defendant from deregistering the plaintiffs or any political party
for that matter for failure to win seats or certain percentages of the vote
cast at the 20I9 general election as these political parties could have won but
for irregularities and cancellations perpetrated by persons who are not agents
of the political parties.” The plaintiffs, however, on Friday brought
an order of mandatory injunction for the court to compel INEC to restore the
political parties to status quo, the motion was supported by an affidavit of
urgency. Reacting to the judgment,  IPAC President, Chief Peter Ameh, said from
the order of the court, INEC had been restrained from deregistering the
political parties. Ameh who addressed journalists shortly
after the court pronouncement, also  said
that those who wanted to topple the leadership of IPAC on account of the INEC’s
party deregistration had failed. He said: “We believe in the spirit and
letters of the law and that was why we did not call our members out to protest.
We went to court to defend our rights and to ensure that our children will not
be afraid to join an association or political party because it will be
deregistered the next day without recourse to provisions of the constitution of
the land”. Court
Can’t Stop Event That Has Taken Place, Says INEC However, INEC has faulted the ruling,  saying that a court cannot restrain an event
that has already taken place The INEC’s Director in charge of Voter
Education and Publicity, Mr. Oluwole Osaze Izzi, said  a court could 
not stop an event that had taken place. He added that no restraining order was
granted, as  only an accelerated hearing
was granted . “Ordinarily, courts don’t grant
injunctions to stop an act which has already been done. We haven’t seen the
order. So, it is difficult for us to comment on it. Perhaps, the fact of
deregistration wasn’t brought to the court’s attention. I am aware that this
was mentioned in court today by the plaintiffs’ lawyer but their application to
restore the plaintiffs as registered political parties wasn’t taken today. “This motion is still pending. The court has granted accelerated hearing of the case,” Uzzi stated.