 One of the hopeless responses of Army Chief, Tukur Buratai, to the unending attacks by Boko Haram was the creation of his so-called “Super Camps” for the military in the northeast. It is an imprudent strategy, under which small army camps were withdrawn from several areas and combined into fewer larger bases. This happened early last year. The result has been tragic for the country, as it helped the terrorists to gain more grounds, thus, increasing the pummeling of innocent Nigerians and soldiers. My dear Buratai, this baloney is obviously not working. It has left many communities in Borno State vulnerable. By now, the army chief ought to have impassively reviewed this strategy and have it dumped in the garbage can. His balderdash Super Camps have brought more pain on Nigerians living in the war zone. I often wonder if there is a tactical committee working with those implementing this war against Boko Haram. Otherwise, we should not be experiencing unending trauma heightened by faulty military strategy. Our sleeping defence minister, Bashir Magashi surely needs to put in place a war tactical committee, of about 20 members, made up of experienced combatants, to work with the Theartre Commander of Operation Lafia Dole. As for Buratai, I am not sorry to say that he remains the most incompetent army chief in the history of this country. Auno, a settlement located on the major road leading to Maiduguri is
one of the communities exposed to attacks caused by Buratai’s faulty Super Camp
strategy. The terrorists have struck here six times in the last eight months,
killing scores of people. The attack last Sunday was most brutal. The
terrorists killed 30 people and abducted many women and children in a late
night raid on blameless people waiting to cross into Maiduguri. The victims
could not beat the irritable 6pm deadline for crossing into Maiduguri and ended
up being slaughtered by Boko Haram. The jihadists, unhindered, stormed Auno in
trucks with heavy weapons, killing, burning and looting before kidnapping women
and children. “Many of the drivers and their assistants, who were sleeping in
their vehicles, were burnt alive,” civilian militia fighter, Babakura Kolo
said. Thereafter, the terrorists combed the village, looting and burning shops
and property before withdrawing. Boko Haram fighters have been active in Auno
for years, mounting roadblocks to target security forces and civilians. Just like many other Nigerians, my very good friend and ex-classmate at
the University of Leeds, UK, Abba Bashir-Shua has been in tears following the
Auno attack. His niece, Fatima, who was a student of the University of Maiduguri,
was one of those burnt to death during the Auno attack. Fatima was on her way
to school when the tragedy occurred. An obviously disheartened Abba is hoping
that Buhari will rise from his slumber and end the killings in his beloved
Borno State. My prayer is for aljana fidau for all those killed in Auno. President Muhammadu Buhari was deservedly booed when he visited
Maiduguri on Wednesday to condole with the government and people of Borno State
over the Auno killings. It is shocking that our President did not visit the
traumatised people of Auno. He simply visited the state’s capital, Maiduguri,
and delivered his usual rhetoric that the terrorist would soon be tamed. I
found it nauseating when Buhari further said: “I believe there is an
improvement in security.” This is evidently not correct. By now, Buhari should
be tired of this prostrate rhetoric. Nigerians want result and not rhetoric. I was further shocked that our President went about telling the people
of Borno State that Boko Haram or any of their factions would not carry out
attacks without the support of some of the locals. Our President was so
insensitive to the feelings of those that have lost loved ones to the
terrorists in the entire North-east. Boko Haran doesn’t need the locals to
carry out attacks. These terrorists control territories with very strong
intelligence network. Besides, the locals have been traumatised and are too
scared to report Boko Haram movements. Those who dare to do this are eliminated
by the terrorists. Even when the military are aware of Boko Haram location,
appropriate response hardly comes. So, this talk about locals not cooperating
with the military is cheap talk. To end terrorism, the military needs aerial
power. Intelligence, technology, quality equipment and quality manpower will be
needed. Our gallant military lacks the competence and equipment for these. That
was why the terrorists confidently attacked Jiddari Polo, on the outskirts of
Maiduguri few hours after the President’s condolence visit to the city, causing
many residents to flee into Maiduguri. Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State has shown courage in the moves
to end insurgency in his state. He rightly wants the Nigerian Armed Forces to
change strategies in the fight against terrorism in order to get result. During
Buhari’s visit, he bluntly told him that the state had been witnessing horrific
and spontaneous attacks by the insurgents in the last one year, resulting in
the loss of hundreds of lives. “We need to keep taking the war to the enclaves
of the insurgents on the fringes of the Lake Chad Basin, Sambisa Forest and
some notable areas,” Zulum declared. On the flip side, the pogrom in Kaduna State continued during the week
with gunmen attacking Bakali village, in Giwa Local Government. The men, who struck
last Tuesday, killed 21 people. The bandits went round the village, shooting
indiscriminately, during which two Islamic preachers, his neighbour and one of
his friends were killed. A resident, Sani Bakali, who lost 13 family members in
the attack, said the men operated for over two hours, without security agents
responding. “Eleven of my relatives were killed in a house, comprising three
women and eight children of my younger brothers.  All of them were locked in the house and
burnt to death. The bandits killed two of my uncles in another building, while
four corpses burnt beyond recognition were discovered along the bush path.
Twenty-one persons were killed in all by the bandits while nine persons are
missing,” laments the bereaved Bakali. On Wednesday, the bandits attacked a local market in Maro village,
Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State, killing seven people. The
President of the Adara Youth Congress (AYC), Mr. Peter Joshua, said the bandits
came in a vehicle and were dressed in military uniform. He said nobody
suspected that they were killers because soldiers used to come to the market on
patrol every market day. It is pertinent to put in place stringent measures to tackle the
deteriorating security situation in Kaduna State. This state, which can be
conveniently described as the epicenter of abductions and banditry in Nigeria,
deserves special attention. Daily, scores of people are killed by bandits and
kidnappers. Governor Nasir El-rufai has to rise above religious sentiments to
effectively tackle this crisis. Buhari, Bishop Kukah and Nepotism The Bishop of Sokoto Catholic Diocese, Bishop Matthew Kukah, hit the
nail on the head in his assessment of the Buhari government, in his sermon at
the Good Shepherd Major Seminary, Kaukau, Kaduna State, before the burial of
Michael Nnadi, a seminarian killed by kidnappers. The cleric remarked that
Buhari was running the “most nepotistic and narcissistic government in known
history,” and concluded that the President had not only relegated the national
interest to the background, but he had also introduced nepotism into the
military. My takeaway from the Homily are these critical quotes: “No one could
have imagined that in winning the Presidency, General Buhari would bring
nepotism and clannishness into the military and the ancillary security
agencies, that his government would be marked by supremacist and divisive
policies that would push our country to the brink. This President has displayed
the greatest degree of insensitivity in managing our country’s rich diversity.
He has subordinated the larger interests of the country to the hegemonic
interests of his co-religionists and clansmen and women. “The impression created now is that to hold a key and strategic position
in Nigeria today, it is more important to be a northern Muslim than a Nigerian.
Our nation is like a ship stranded on the high seas, rudderless and with broken
navigational aids. Today, our years of hypocrisy, duplicity, fabricated
integrity, false piety, empty morality, fraud and Pharisaism have caught up
with us. Nigeria is at a crossroads and its future hangs precariously in the
balance. This is a wakeup call for us.” “Today, in Nigeria, the noble religion of Islam has convulsed. It has
become associated with some of the worst fears among our people. Muslim
scholars, traditional rulers and intellectuals have continued to cry out
helplessly, asking for their religion and region to be freed from this
chokehold. This is because, in all of this, neither Islam nor the North can identify
any real benefits from these years that have been consumed by the locusts that
this government has unleashed on our country. The Fulani, his innocent kinsmen,
have become the subject of opprobrium, ridicule, defamation, calumny and
obloquy. His North has become one large graveyard, a valley of dry bones, the
nastiest and the most brutish part of our dear country.” Is there anything more to add about the character of the Buhari
government? The Bishop of Sokoto Catholic Diocese has said it all. Why Should Convicted Governors Forfeit Assets to FG? Aside the conviction of former Abia State governor,
Orji Uzor Kalu, for corruption by Justice Muhammed Idris of the Federal High
Court, Lagos, on December 5, the judge also ordered the winding up of Kalu’s
company, Slok Nigeria Limited, and all assets forfeited to the federal government.
Justice Idris held: “In respect of the third convict, Slok Nigeria Limited, an
order is hereby made that the company shall hereupon and without further
assurances, but for this order, be wound up and all its assets and properties
forfeited to the Federal Government of Nigeria.” This aspect of forfeiting the assets to the federal
government is what I find ludicrous in Justice Idris’s judgement. Since Kalu
has been found guilty of conspiring and diverting N7.65 billion from the
coffers of Abia State Government, then the forfeited assets should go to this
state. I have been asking a number of lawyers to justify this controversial
aspect of the judgement and nobody could do this. So, I am using this medium to
challenge Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State to go to court and demand that
the forfeited assets be returned to the treasury of the state. If Ikpeazu truly loves
his state, he would take a swift action in this direction.