 While it
is good to have a liberal law that, at least on the surface, encourages popular
participation, it is also important for all the relevant stakeholders,
including those in the media, civil society and National Assembly to understand
the full implications of having dozens of political parties on the ballot in an
environment such as ours. Beyond the logistical nightmare of administering such
elections without creating room for endless litigations that we have witnessed
over the years, a largely illiterate electorate will find it difficult making
informed choices in a situation where too many parties and candidates are on
the ballot. Although
many of these political parties that represent no more than the personal
interests of their promoters have indicated going to court, it is important
that they be checkmated. What has become clear in Nigeria today is the increasing
desperation for power not necessarily to advance public good but rather to
target the enormous spoils of office that are attached to political positions
at all levels of governance. It is this same reason that drives the
establishment of political parties that have, for all practical purposes,
become business ventures. It is in
light of the foregoing that we endorse the decision by the Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC) to deregister 74 political parties, based on
Section 225A of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). Nigeria, according to the
INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, had 91 political parties before the
2019 general election with another one registered by court order after the
election, making a total of 92 political parties. He added that the last
alteration to the 1999 Constitution in 2018 specifically empowers INEC to
deregister political parties on the following grounds: Breach of any of the
requirements for registration as a political party; failure to win at least 25%
of the votes cast in one state of the federation in a presidential election or
25% of the votes cast in one local government area in a governorship election
and failure to win at least one ward in a chairmanship election, one seat in
the National or State Assembly election or one seat in a councillorship
election. The right
of people to form parties and have them registered does not reduce the
obligation of INEC to regulate the criteria for retaining their registration.
 Even if people have the
right to form political parties, proliferation is counterproductive to our
democracy. For one, these new parties (like the old ones) are not built around
any ideology or interest group and from past experience, they are unlikely to
exert any remarkable influence good enough to win elections. That then explains
why the nation must recover its senses. While the
parties have a right to exist, INEC has just exercised its obligation to
regulate in line with extant rules. The commission has compelling reasons to do
so. For years, INEC has been burdened with repeat elections that are needless
and that trend has only multiplied as the number of political parties and
candidates grew. Under what is termed “unlawful exclusion”, elections can be –
and are often – nullified on several grounds, including a wrong spelling of
names, even if such candidates were electoral no-hopers. In terms of logistics
and cost to INEC, managing close to 100 parties is a nightmare. For the
sake of growing our democracy therefore, the fewer the parties, the better for
democratic choice. It is for INEC to prescribe a new, more restrictive set of
criteria for party registration. These will need to be written into a revised
electoral law so that those deregistered after an election do not, on the eve
of another, seek and secure fresh registrations. As we have
argued in the past, there is a fundamental reason why the best democracies
gravitates around two major parties. Democratic choice even among the most
enlightened electorate tends to be binary: either apples or oranges. But even
under a multi-party arrangement, a maximum upper limit that is robust enough to
accommodate all ideological options makes more sense. Core belief, national
presence, spread of membership and basic infrastructure and not the whims of
individuals should guide party registration.