Monday letter2 February 8th marked the 45th anniversary of Alhaji Shehu Idris as the 18th Emir of Zazzau. He will go down in history as one of the Emirate’s longest serving monarchs, whose reign has witnessed monumental changes in various spheres of life. The achievements of Balaraben Sarki! Dan Idrisu Autan Sambo is multifarious. It’s indeed lovely day and memorable that our dear emir made mention in public that he witnessed the arrival of 20 executive governors, that he worked with them peacefully without any malice. I personally quote the current executive Governor of our state, Malam Nasir Ahmed el -Rufai expressing his satisfaction with our father His Royal Highness Alhaji Idris and the entire Zazzau emirate with the quality of leadership Zazzagawa witnessed in the 45th years of achievement, development and the uninterrupted blessings of personalities in Zazzau. Forty five years in the life of a person is not to be taken for granted, especially when it is spent as an inspired leader of a unique and complex miniature Nigeria like Zazzau Emirate. Historically, Zazzau Emirate serves as the fulcrum of Northern Nigeria as Kaduna being part of its territory served as headquarters of the region. The emirate’s cosmopolitan nature coupled with its diversity in religion and culture provides evidence to the accommodating nature of the people. Until recently when intolerance and sectarian violence set in, Zazzau Emirate was a haven for all. This comes as a result of liberal traditional leadership provided by His Highness, Shehu Idris. His penchant for peaceful coexistence, pursuit of knowledge, accommodation and forgiveness enticed people from all walks of life to find solace in the emirate. Even citizens of neighboring African countries migrate to Zaria with different mission of either to have shelter or seek for western and Islamic Education at various levels. The emirate has witnessed tremendous amount of development in terms of education as the emir is the landlord of various educational institutions that uplifted different personalities in Nigeria and the neighboring countries. I wish the emir and the emirate more blissful and prosperous years ahead. Jamilu Bello Dogarawa (jakadan maradin zazzau), Zaria Kaduna State 