 Chineme Okafor in Abuja The federal government
intends to make Nigeria’s gas market profitable to investors and the country,
with the National Gas Transportation Network Code, the Technical Adviser on Gas
Business and Policy Implementation to the Minister of State for Petroleum
Resources, Justice Derefaka, has said. In a note sent to THISDAY
on the recent launch of the National Gas Transportation Network Code by Sylva,
Derefaka who is also the Project Manager for the Nigerian Gas Flare
Commercialisation Programme (NGFCP), explained that it was part of a larger
plan to stimulate growth in the country’s gas sector. He said key strategies
adopted in the National Gas Policy which the federal government approved in
2017, included measures to stimulate the gas market as it relates to the
domestic economy, get Nigeria’s export gas competitive and secure long-term
gas-based energy security for the country. “The network code is a
gas market liberalisation enabler aimed at ensuring gas pipeline integrity,
open access to pipeline and common understanding on metering with a set of
rules and protocols. “They are designed to
govern the operations of gas network players in a way that impacts the gas market
as part of efforts towards transparency and efficiency in the operation of
pipelines in the country,” said Derefaka. He explained that the
code would ensure transparency in the industry, guarantee fair and
non-discriminatory access to gas transportation network, attract foreign
investors, and help to ensure that, “the wrong gas does not go into the
pipeline.” “This network code aims
to harmonise gas balancing arrangements to support the completion and
functioning of Nigerian gas market, the security of supply and appropriate
access to the relevant information, in order to facilitate trade and to move
forward towards greater market integration,” he added. According to him, the
network code would also enable new ways of doing business in the Nigerian domestic
gas market. “Every gas meant for
domestic use either for power, petrochemical or industrial, will have a single
entry and exit point to cut short the sharp practices prevalent in the current
supply and distribution system,” he stated. “Note also that the gas
network code has been long overdue and the whole industry has anticipated the
network code and expect to see it come on stream soon. And from an investor
perspective, it assures that when they invest, their gas will be operated in
best practices and help in boosting the confidence of international financiers
because they are always concerned about things being done properly. “It will also provide
them with an idea of how serious the government wants to drive the gas sector
forward,” Derefaka further noted. He stated that
as part of its regulatory and operational mechanism, the network code would
include other ancillary agreements and Licenses to be issued to its users. These agreements he added
included supplier, operator (or transporter), shipper and agents licenses
framework/accession agreement; network entry/exit (interconnection) agreements
and operational balancing agreement (OBA). “In a nutshell, the
network code system will play a vital role in ensuring that it delivers the
energy that is the lifeblood of our economy, keeping our lights on, our homes
warm and our businesses running,” he said. He stated that the
network code would also open up new developments in the gas supply chain such
as compressed natural gas (CNG) for transportation and liquefied petroleum gas
(LPG) for cooking while reducing deforestation. “As a government, it is
important that we facilitate the emergence of these new uses of gas through
appropriate interventions which is why the Hon Minister of State recently
inaugurated the National Gas Expansion Programme (NGEP), stating that the
country is on the verge of becoming a gas hub for the African subregion. “I believe the network
code, can assist us as a nation to realise our potential and reap the vast
benefits of a secure, fully implemented internal gas market for all its
citizens,” he explained.