After Destroying Wilder Tyson Fury Sets Sight on Anthony Joshua Tyson Fury appeared to have given a nod to fellow heavyweight British boxer Anthony Joshua during his rematch with Deontay Wilder which he won with a knock out in Las Vegas early hours of yesterday. The Gypsy King defeated Wilder in their rematch to claim the WBC Heavyweight title after a seven round blitz of the American. Fury dominated the fight throughout and it has since been revealed the Bronze Bomber only won one round on the judges scorecards across all three adjudicators. Wilder had to be taken to hospital after the fight as he was bleeding out of his ear. Fury will now have his eyes set on a unification fight with Joshua, who holds the WBA, IBF, WBO and IBO titles. Fury sent a subtle message to AJ during his Las Vegas bout. The 31-year-old Mancunian wore a green and white gumshield during the fight with Wilder with the word ‘Nigeria’ written across it. The mouth guard is thought to be referencing Joshua’s Nigerian heritage that he is incredibly proud of. Joshua even has a tattoo of the African country on his right shoulder and registered for a national ID card and passport in Lagos last week. Joshua also showed his respect to his heavyweight rival on Instagram after the fight yesterday, posting a picture of Fury donning the gumshield, alongside the caption: ‘Gladiator’. Boxing promoter Eddie Hearn has however said that he has spoken to AJ and that the Watford-born fighter will do ‘anything’ to fight Fury and unify the division. Hearn insisted he is now determined to get Joshua into the ring with Tyson Fury, admitting it is the one fight his prized asset wants to take on next. Joshua has been linked with a Fury clash for some time, though had always played down the prospect due to the Gypsy King’s time away from the ring. Now, Fury is back and better than ever before, having blown away Deontay Wilder in Las Vegas to be re-crowned heavyweight champion of the world. Joshua is due to face Kubrat Pulev in June but is ready to sidestep that to make the fight everyone wants and agree to an all-British showdown with Fury. “I’ve already spoken to AJ and he wants to go into this fight next,’ Hearn declared to UK’s talkSPORT in the aftermath of Fury’s win. “We have to make this fight happen. We will never, ever get the chance for two Brits to fight for an undisputed heavyweight world championship. “I promise you we will do everything we can to make this fight. It has to happen.” Wilder now has a 30-day window to take up a rematch option in the bi-lateral agreement with Fury, which would set up a blockbuster trilogy clash in the summer. Hearn acknowledges that Wilder is highly likely to take up the rematch, given his current lack of high calibre options following the humilation. “I don’t think anyone wants to see a third fight because it was that conclusive but we will see if he exercises that clause,” Hearn added. “I probably expect Wilder to do that – I don’t see where else he has to go. “But our mandatory (IBF) challenger, Kubrat Pulev, is also promoted by Bob Arum, like Tyson Fury, so there is a very easy manoeuvre there if Wilder doesn’t accept the rematch to go straight into this undisputed fight in the summer. That is what we have to push for initially.” Giving his own view on the situation, Fury’s promoter Arum added: ‘The question is directed to Deontay Wilder. “He can opt out of a third now and get himself together and do it again next year in which case Tyson Fury will keep himself busy with other opponents. If he wants to go ahead, that’s what the contract says and we will honour that.”