 Dele Olowu traces the 50-year history
of Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin Fifty
years after it was built, the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium has undergone its most
transformative reconstruction. Not only is this a worthy tribute to Dr
Osaigbovo Ogbemudia, one of the Midwest´s most illustrious sons, it is also a
fitting complement to the citizens of the legacy states, who have customarily
topped the bill in most sports competitions across the Nigerian federation.
 It further acknowledges the rigor of Governor Godwin Obaseki in this area
of work. He has personally hosted the reclamation and saved the Samuel
Ogbemudia Stadium from regressing into further disrepair. Amaju Pinnick,
President of the Nigerian Football Federation, doubtless challenged by the
prospect of Nigeria hosting the World Cup, has himself provided considerable
ideological impetus to power the upgrade of the stadium. However
the story of the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, as indeed that of sports
development in the jurisdiction, is multilayered. Even if we allow that the
sports revolution in the area can be attributed to many heroes, we will still
find no difficulty in reaching the conclusion that Osaigbovo Ogbemudia must
take overwhelming credit for the star status the region enjoys in
sports. The
Samuel Ogbemudia stadium has historically served as the amphitheater
for the sports resurgence in the geographic Midwest. It has itself had
different phases and incarnations; it has hosted historic rivalries in football
and athletics as in other sports and has also provided opportunities for people
of talent to flourish, to shine, and transform the sporting stock of the
Midwest. For
those who know the hierarchies of the ancient city, the location of the stadium
itself is of some consequence. It is set in Ogbe quarters, the traditional
residence of the Oba of Benin himself. This area thus enjoys a unique
cultural primacy which confers a special glow and visibility on the
sports asset. In Benin City, few entities are better known than
the stadium in Ogbe.  The stadium has not surprisingly, proceeded
hand-in-hand with the city in its march through history. When the great James
Brown, President of soul music visited the Midwest in 1970, it was in the
Ogbemudia Stadium that he entertained; when the football maestro Pele, and
the Santos football club, visited Benin in 1970 it was in the Samuel
Ogbemudia stadium that they played against the Vipers football club. The
stadium has also hosted the Ogbe Hard Court lawn tennis competition raising
local and international interest in the game. The
stadium is drenched in history and even though it promoted sports and hosted
epochal sporting contests under Osaigbovo Ogbemudia, an assortment of other
Nigerian men and women also assisted in making the jurisdiction great in
competitive sports.  Those who will be remembered with great fondness must
include Chief O. N. Rewane, who turned the famous Hussey College Warri into a
sports haven, providing a spring board for sporting icons like the legendary
Tony Urhobo and Popoola. Urhobo a gifted all-rounder was induced from
Government College Ughelli while Popoola, a sprint sorcerer was
poached from Awe High School by Chief Rewane. Perhaps one of the most
enthralling sporting rivalries that had been hosted in the Ogbemudia Stadium is
the pole vault contest which took place in 1967. It was a straight fight
between Tony Urhobo of Hussey College Warri and Omoregbe from Urhobo College
Effurun. Jump after jump each contestant cleared the bar and sought to
establish primacy. The fiber pole had just arrived Nigeria and they may
have been the first to deploy it. The contest went on, tension rising high as
both contestants engaged  in different theatrics; throwing the vault into
the air and aborting  a jump just before lift-off. Light was fading but in
the end it was Urhobo who prevailed by a difference of two inches. The stadium
rose in applause. The
Ogbemudia stadium has also been famous for producing exuberant football
fraternities, and remains outstanding as the home ground of
Bendel Insurance.  It won the Challenge Cup in 1978 captained by an
iconic player Victor Oduah who died two years ago. Apart from Oduah,
the team also contributed Chris Ogu, and Emmanuel Egede to the
national team. Since Ogbemudia subsequent administrators have tended to be
sports enthusiasts. Governor Jeremiah Useni was one of them and he was a
regular presence at the Ogbemudia stadium. He even, famously developed a
colloquial intimacy with the fans. On one occasion he arrived the stadium
marginally late. One petulant fan shouted “Governor you are late”.
Unfazed, Useni retorted “Shat up your mouth”, and in quick step, walked up
to his seat in the state box. Ogbemudia stadium developed extraordinary
mutualities amongst fans, many of them unknown to each other. Ekhosuehi,
who once ran the Bendel Insurance club and later became Vice Chairman of
the NFA, seemed to live most of his life in the stadium. Every match day he
would arrive with a bowl of kola nuts and share it to friends and foes alike. The
camaraderie in the Ogbemudia was extensive, but when it mattered, there was no
shortage of bile and harsh exchanges. The Bendel Insurance Football club was
amongst the most raucous in the land, and its members were not averse to
threatening their own players if their form was poor. After one Insurance
player missed a penalty, an irate female supporter, latched her
considerable girth against the hoardings, shouting out obscenities and boasting
that she was prepared to step in as substitute! Only that according to her, she
skipped her meal before coming to the stadium. Insurance fans were a
strong force and in 1981 a rouge cluster emerged in Benin led by a taxi driver
named Iyobosa. Seeing that they had become irreverent and sometimes lawless,
government sought to deal with the menace. Their leader was accorded strange
protocol courtesies including a rendering of the national anthem when he
arrived the stadium. And the lads seemed to love him. Government imposed a ban
on the President and his rogue cluster. Iyobosa went to court seeking to uphold
his fundamental human rights. When the court now decided in his favour, the
celebrations which followed, were so elaborate an impression was created that
the whole stadium had been ceded to Iyobosa and his group. It was Governor
Jeremiah who defused the situation. He ordered that Iyobosa should not only be
let into the stadium, he should be allowed to sit with him in the state box.
That way they both enjoyed co-eminence when the national anthem was played. The
Ogbemudia stadium across the years has had a huge weight of history and events
on its back. When it was opened 50 years ago, it was received with some sense
of wonder. It was designed by Mrs Asemota, a German architect married to a
Nigerian. Its first Groundsman was Grange, a white man. Not many knew what
groundsmen did. But it was not that long before flooding problems emerged.
Interventions were carried out now and again but they never were far reaching
enough. Now under Godwin Obaseki and obviously in response to the obligation to
host the National Sports festival, we appear to be gifted with a new Samuel
Ogbemudia Stadium. The stadium area is an important complement for every
metropolis. Its economy can be reinforcing and can multiply opportunities in
related provisions. The governor’s charge that Edo must participate to win at
the sports festival is perhaps natural. But winning at all costs must not be a
fixation. It has in the past produced a narrowness of vision that caused those
who are greedy enough, to use a gang of fixed sportsmen to win the
national sports festival, from one state to the other.  One successful
coach once ran a racket in which he used same athletes to win the national
sports festival first in Kano and next Delta. His fame probably spread but our
sports stagnated. Ogbemudia Stadium is about to experience a new flowering.
Under support such as has been provided by Governor Obaseki, Edo could well
turn in more success stories in sports. Quote Jeremiah
Useni famously developed a colloquial intimacy with the fans. On one occasion
he arrived the stadium marginally late. One petulant fan shouted ‘Governor you
are late’! Unfazed, Useni retorted ‘Shat up your mouth’, and in quick
step, walked up to his seat in the state box