 President Muhammadu Buhari should take heed of the recent
homily by the Bishop of Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, the revered Father Mathew
Hassan Kukah during the burial of an 18-year-old seminarian, Michael Nnadi,
killed by members of the Boko Haram sect. Shola Oyeyipo writes Among very respectable Nigerians whose contributions on national issues have been very instructive and assertive is Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah, of the Diocese of Sokoto, in Northern Nigeria. His
Tuesday, February 11 homily at the burial of an 18-year-old seminarian, Michael
Nnadi, held at the Good Shepherd Major Seminary, Kaukau, Chikun local
government area, Kaduna State, provided another opportunity to draw the ears of
the Nigerian leadership to the fact that Nigeria is on the precipice and that
necessary actions must be taken to reverse this ugly trend. The 18-year-old
Nnadi, was abducted and later killed by members of Boko Haram
terrorists-Islamic sect and like others, his killing generated widespread
condemnation from around the world, so much so are the points raised by the
respected clergy. Except
some in the corridor of power benefiting from the continued insecurity facing
Nigeria, no one who wishes Nigeria well is satisfied with its present state of
affair particularly, in the aspects of insecurity and poverty. Nigeria
has been plagued with insecurity and evidence abounds to show that with
poverty, insecurity will be difficult to curtail and vis-à-vis, when insecurity
is unaddressed, poverty becomes rampant. This
is the pathetic story of Nigeria now and many people from different walks of
life have spoken out to express disappointment in the President Muhammadu
Buhari administration’s inability to reverse the debilitating situation. But
as much as they do, those holding the levers of power easily politicise every
criticism against the government or ignore them outright. Truth, however, is
that the country is running fast on the reverse gear if these issues generating
concern were not urgently addressed. While
he urged Christendom and Nnadi’s family to take solace in the fact that the
young boy was glorified at death, Kukah made some salient points that required
reflections. He noted that now is a defining moment for Christians and the
government. “This
is a solemn moment for the body of Christ. This is for us the moment of
decision. This is the moment that separates darkness from light; good from
evil. Our nation is like a ship stranded on the high seas, rudderless and with
broken navigational aids. “Today,
our years of hypocrisy, duplicity, fabricated integrity, false piety, empty
morality, fraud and Pharisaism have caught up with us. Nigeria is on the
crossroads and its future hangs precariously in a balance. This is a wakeup
call for us. As St. Paul reminds us: The night is far spent, and the day is at
hand. Therefore, let us cast away the works of darkness and put on the armour
of light (Rom. 13:12). It is time to confront and dispel the clouds of evil
that hover over us. “Nigeria
is at a point, where we must call for a verdict. There must be something that a
man, nay, a nation should be ready to die for. Sadly, or even tragically,
today, Nigeria does not possess that set of goals or values for which any sane
citizen is prepared to die for her. Perhaps, I should correct myself and say
that the average office holder is ready to die to protect his office but not
for the nation that has given him or her that office.  “The Yoruba say that if it takes you 25 years
to practice madness, how much time would you have to put it into real life? We
have practiced madness for too long. “Our
attempt to build a nation has become like the agony of Sisyphus, who angered
the gods and had to endure the frustration of rolling a stone up the mountain.
Each time he got near the top, the gods would tip the stone back and he would
go back to start all over again. What has befallen our nation? “Nigeria
needs to pause for a moment and think. No one more than the President of
Nigeria, Major General Muhammadu Buhari, who was voted for in 2015 on the
grounds of his own promises to rout Boko Haram and place the country on an even
keel,” he suggested. The
clergy drew inference from an address by President Muhammadu Buhari at the
prestigious Policy Think Tank, Chatham House in London, before the 2015
elections, where he said: “I, as a retired General and a former Head of State,
have always known about our soldiers. They are capable and they are well
trained, patriotic, brave and always ready to do their duty. “If
am elected President, the world will have no reason to worry about Nigeria.
Nigeria will return to its stabilising role in West Africa. We will pay
sufficient attention to the welfare of our soldiers in and out of service. We
will develop adequate and modern arms and ammunition. “We
will improve intelligence gathering and border patrols to choke Boko Haram’s
financial and equipment channels. We will be tough on terrorism and tough on
its root causes by initiating a comprehensive economic development and
promoting infrastructure development… We will always act on time and not allow
problems to irresponsibly fester. And I, Muhammadu Buhari, will always lead
from the front.” One
is not sure President Buhari remembers this statement he made and if he does,
in his evaluations, would he say he has brought this to bear and that such
actions have yielded the expected results. The answer is capital NO! According
to Kukah, while no one doubted the president to walk his talks during
campaigns, “No one could have imagined that in winning the presidency, General
Buhari would bring nepotism and clannishness into the military and the
ancillary security agencies, that his government would be marked by supremacist
and divisive policies that would push our country to the brink. “This
president has displayed the greatest degree of insensitivity in managing our
country’s rich diversity. He has subordinated the larger interests of the
country to the hegemonic interests of his co-religionists and clansmen and
women. The impression created now is that, to hold a key and strategic position
in Nigeria today, it is more important to be a northern Muslim than a Nigerian.” This
is no lie. Kukah did not say anything new. Every opinionated Nigerian has
vehemently protested the palpable ‘northernisation’ of the Nigerian security
architecture and the presidency has paid deaf ear to it. And out of distrust in
the security agencies, sections of the country are opting to inaugurate their
security outfits. He
noted that despite Buhari’s favourable disposition to his northern kinsmen
above every other section of the country, the noble religion of Islam has
convulsed because it has associated with some of worst fears among the people
and that Muslim scholars, traditional rulers and intellectuals have continued
to cry out helplessly, asking for their religion and region to be freed from
the chokehold of terrorism, poverty and all other vices. “This
is because, in all of this, neither Islam nor the north can identify any real
benefits from these years that have been consumed by the locusts that this
government has unleashed on our country. The Fulani, his innocent kinsmen, have
become the subject of opprobrium, ridicule, defamation, calumny and obloquy.
His north has become one large graveyard, a valley of dry bones, the nastiest
and the most brutish part of our dear country. “Despite
running the most nepotistic and narcissistic government in known history, there
are no answers to the millions of young children on the streets in northern
Nigeria, the north still has the worst indices of poverty, insecurity,
stunting, squalor and destitution. His Eminence, the Sultan of Sokoto, and the
Emir of Kano are the two most powerful traditional and moral leaders in Islam
today. “None
of them is happy and they have said so loud and clear. The Sultan recently
lamented the tragic consequences of power being in the wrong hands. Every day,
Muslim clerics are posting tales of lamentation about their fate. Now, the
Northern elders, who in 2015 believed that General Buhari had come to redeem
the north have now turned against the president.” Referring
to the unresolved abduction of Leah Sharibu and now Michael, all teenagers, who
have become Christian martyrs, the Man of God pointed out that the persecution
of Christians in northern Nigeria is as old as the modern Nigerian state. This,
he said is done by denying Christians lands for places of worship across most
of the northern states, ignoring the systematic destruction of churches all
these years, denying Christians adequate recruitment, representation and
promotions in the state civil services. He
also alleged that their indigenous children were denied scholarships, marrying
Christian women or converting Christians while threatening Muslim women and
prospective converts with death, and by these he said, “they make building a
harmonious community impossible.” For
people of his faith, Kukah stated that this is a defining moment for Christians
and Christianity in Nigeria. He said the Christians must be honest enough to
accept that they had taken so much for granted and made so much sacrifice in
the name of nation building. “We accepted President Buhari, when he came with
General Idiagbon, two Muslims and two northerners. We accepted Abiola and
Kingibe, thinking that we had crossed the path of religion, but we were grossly
mistaken. When Jonathan became President, and Senator David Mark remained
Senate President, while Patricia Ette, was chosen by the Southwest, became a
Speaker. “The
Muslim members revolted and forced her resignation with lies and forgery. The
same House would shamelessly say that they had no records of her indictment.
Today, we are living with a Senate whose entire leadership is in the hands of
Muslims. Christians
have continued to support them. For how long shall we continue on this road
with different ambitions? “Christians
must rise up and defend their faith with all the moral weapons they have. We
must become more robust in presenting the values of Christianity especially,
our message of love and non-violence to a violent society. Among the wolves of
the world, we must become more politically alert, wise as the serpent and
humble as the dove (Mt. 10:16). “Every
Religion has the seeds of its own redemption or destruction. It is a choice
between Caesar and God. We cannot borrow the crown of Caesar without
consequences. The boundaries between faith and reason are delicate but they are
fundamental to how a society builds a moral code. “Faith
without reason breeds the fanatic, the demagogue, who genuinely but wrongly
believes that he has heard the voice of a god ordering him to kill another.
Reason without faith produces the ideologues, who will also kill, because the
ideology of the state orders him to do so. “Societies
can only survive when a Constitutional basis has been established to create a
balance between both extremes and to place our common humanity at the centre of
every pursuit. “There
is hope, my dear friends. Are we angry? Yes, we are. Are we sad? Of course, we
are. Are we tempted to vengeance? Indeed, we are. Do we feel betrayed? You bet.
Do we know what to do? Definitely. Do we know when to do it? Why not? Do we
know how? Absolutely. Are we in a war? Yes. But what would Christ have us do?
The only way He has pointed out to us is the non-violent way. It is the road
less travelled, but it is the only way.” Those
words by Kukah were strong, instructive and well embedded in the minds of many
Nigerians and particularly, Christians, who have been victims of religious
persecution. Since
according to Kukah, nation-building cannot happen without adequate
representation and a deliberate effort at creating for all members a sense, a
feeling, of belonging, and freedom to make their contributions, the absence
which he said has been “the window that the killers of Boko Haram have
exploited and turned into a door to death – it is why killing Christians and
destroying Christianity is seen as one of their key missions.” If
President Buhari is cognisant of this kind of sermonaisation; if he considers
the personality of a man of Kukah’s status and his contributions to national
debate and also sees the implications of a situation, where the citizenry
resorts to defending themselves against attacks, it is time the administration
does something concrete to address insecurity and protect vulnerable Nigerians.