 Chuks Okocha in Abuja Despite being sworn in on Friday as governor
of Bayelsa State, Senator Douye Diri would have no respite from the political
controversy that surrounded his inauguration, THISDAY has learnt.. The Supreme Court had on Thursday awarded
the governorship to PDP, which had Diri as candidate in the November 16
governorship poll in the state. The apex court’s decision denied Chief David
Lyon of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who had been declared winner of
the election and governor-elect by the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC), the post. But the decision has also opened a new
opportunity for those who lost out in the contentious primary that produced
Diri as PDP candidate. The petition against Diri’s emergence as PDP candidate
by a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC),
Ndutimi Alaibe, is still pending at the Federal High Court, Abuja. In a related development, the immediate
past governor of the state, Hon. Seriake Dickson, is said to be positioning
himself to replace the newly sworn in deputy governor, Lawrence Ehrudjakpor, in
the Senate. Dickson and Ehrudjakpor are from the same senatorial district. This
is as PDP is alleged to have concluded plans to charge with perjury the APC
deputy governorship candidate, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, whose
alleged certificate forgery cost his party an election it had overwhelmingly
won. PDP would be pressing for the enforcement of the Supreme Court judgement
against Degi-Eremienyo. In another development, the Supreme Court
will on Tuesday hear the application for a review of its judgement on the Imo
State governorship election filed by sacked Emeka Ihedioha. Sources close to Alaibe told THISDAY that
he still had his case against the emergence of Diri as PDP candidate in the
September 3, 2019 governorship primary of the party. Alaibe’s grouse was that
PDP allowed local government chairmen and councillors to vote during the
primary elections, when the party’s guidelines did not allow elected chairmen
and councillors elected within 90 days to the election to vote during the
governorship primaries. Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice
Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, who was at the time in acting capacity, had approved
the request by Alaibe for the transfer of his suit against Diri to Abuja. The presiding judge of the Federal High
Court sitting in Yenagoa, Justice Jane Inyang, while announcing her decision to
accede to the directive of Muhammad, said the decision was based on the request
by Alaibe, dated September 27, 2019 and received by her court on October 10, 2019. Inyang said Alaibe’s letter did not
question the credibility of the Federal High Court but expressed security
concern in the state. She had, therefore, declared, “I hereby transfer the
case.” Diri, a senator backed by Dickson, had won
the primary election. Diri scored 561 votes to defeat Alaibe, who came second
with 365 votes. Before going to court after the primaries,
Alaibe, in a statement from his campaign organisation, said the electoral
process was “flawed” and “manipulated” and that he was “brazenly robbed of
victory”. He filed a suit at the Federal High Court,
Yenogoa, seeking the cancellation of the result of the primary. PDP, Diri, and
INEC were among the defendants in the suit. The suit filed pursuant to Order 3(9) of
the Federal High Court (Civil Procedure) Rules 2019, seeks answers to questions
bordering on obvious non-adherence to the Constitution of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria, the Electoral Act 2010, the PDP Constitution and Election
Guidelines, by the Bayelsa State chapter of the party in the conduct of the
Ward Congresses, inclusion of local government council officials in the
delegates list, and the procedure for inclusion of three ad-hoc delegates. “Citing specific sections of relevant laws
and guidelines, Alaibe is asking the court to examine the entire processes that
resulted in the primaries and rule in his favour in the light of violations
committed in a desperate move to impose a pre-determined, hand-picked candidate
on the people out of 21 aspirants,” said the statement, which was signed by the
administrative secretary of the campaign organisation, Seiyefa Brisibe. It was later gathered from insiders that
PDP was determined to have Alaibe replace Diri in the Senate, since both are
from the same senatorial district, while Dickson seemed set to replace the
deputy governor.  But one of the sources
said Alaibe was yet to make his position known. But as it appeared, PDP might have resolved to take
Degi-Eremienyo to court following alleged forgery in his academic
qualifications, which was why the Supreme Court invalidated his candidacy and,
by extension, Lyon’s.  The PDP is said to
be pursuing a case of perjury against him. Meanwhile, all is set for the Supreme Court
to hear on Tuesday the application for a review of its judgement on the Imo
State governorship election, brought by Ihedioha. Ihedioha is seeking his
return as the duly elected governor of Imo State. His application, though not
unprecedented, is the last resort and its outcome would be final.