 Obinna Chima The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) has
reiterated that a cost reflective tariff structure must be developed and
implemented to solve the perennial electricity problem in the country and make
the sector financially viable. BPE said the electricity market had been
haemorrhaging badly needed money due to lack of cost reflective tariff. It said
heavy debts by Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of government were
also hampering the growth of the power sector. Those assertions were contained in a recent
report, titled, “Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) Reform: Processes,
Challenges and the Way Forward,” which the BPE presented to the National
Economic Council (NEC) Ad-hoc Committee on the Power Sector, a copy of which
was obtained by THISDAY at the weekend. BPE pointed out in the report that the
federal government’s inability to follow through its commitments had affected
the Performance Agreements (PAs), frowning on the refusal of parties to adhere
to commitments made before the handover. The bureau recommended the creation of a
robust institutional framework that would be ad-hoc in nature, made up of
critical actors, and chaired by the Vice President, as a first step towards
resolution of the power crisis. THISDAY had reported recently that the
Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) was working towards the implementation
of a cost-reflective tariff in the electricity sector. In the report, BPE said its analysis had
revealed that the power sector would require funding to the tune of $7.6
billion over a five-year period, stressing that there is a correlation between
energy consumption and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita. It listed other major challenges facing the
sector to include withdrawal of the transitional subsidy support and dumping of
the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)-backed Nigeria Electricity Market
Stabilisation Facility (NEMSF) on the balance sheet of the Distribution
Companies (Discos). BPE also cited the major shift in Nigeria’s
macroeconomic indicators (exchange rate, inflation) and lack of stable
regulatory environment as factors hurting the electricity sector. It expressed
dismay at the grave shortfall in power generation in the country, which
averaged about 3,500 megawatts in the past 10 years, and the liquidity crisis
in the sector. The agency lamented that Discos collected only about 30 per cent
of market requirements. BPE said regulatory inconsistency over the
years had weighed down the sector. According to the agency, “There is
transmission system constraints, where the network can only wheel about 5,000
MW in reality. An independent analysis by Siemens indicated that the existing
‘last mile’ distribution capacity in the operation is about twice as high as
the peak supply delivered by TCN to the respective distribution. “There is also lack of proper coordination
of the public sector agencies involved in the power sector and the refusal of
parties to adhere strictly to commitments made before handover.” The bureau said there was an urgent need
for implementation of the power sector recovery plan. It said, “The challenges to the power
sector are as old as Nigeria. To solve them, the political leadership must be
committed, have sincerity of purpose and the will to take hard decisions. “The Nigeria goal is to provide universal
access to power for Nigerians by 2030. To achieve that, we must have a roadmap
and a policy that will attract private sector investment, human capital and an
institutional framework to reach set goals. “The first step in resolving the power
logjam is the need to create a robust institutional framework that is ad-hoc in
nature and made up of critical actors. The committee is to be chaired by the
Vice President and made up of heads of relevant ministries and agencies.” BPE explained that the role of the
committee would be to monitor and coordinate the deliverables in the power
sector, adding that it would also eliminate obstacles and bottlenecks in the
attainment of agreed targets. The first assignment of the committee, BPE
said, would be to ensure the power sector recovery plan approved by the Federal
Executive Council (FEC) was diligently and vigorously implemented. “The power sector plan clearly defined
policy actions, operational and financial interventions meant to restore the
financial viability of the power sector bedevilled by liquidity crisis,” it
stated, explaining, “The issues raised are germane to the socio-economic
development of this country. Without resolving the power crisis, Nigeria will
remain underdeveloped, with no major educational, industrial or agricultural
development.” The bureau said, “All hands must be on deck
working in the same direction to implement the power sector recovery plan
approved by the FEC. Nigeria can solve the power deficit challenges under the
current leadership. For that to happen, political leadership at the highest
level must make the required bold and ambitious moves. “After all, New Delhi from where we adapted
our distribution companies’ privatisation model went through same pains we are
going through today.”