 By Deji Elumoye The President of the Senate,
Senator Ahmad Lawan, yesterday said that the National Assembly would continue
to work with President Muhammadu Buhari to find lasting solutions to the
current insecurity in the country. This is coming as the 18-man
Ad-hoc committee on security set up by the Senate to interface with the National
Security Adviser (NSA) and the three service chiefs on the security challenges
facing the country has failed to meet the two-week deadline given to it to
submit its report. Lawan stated this while at
Malumfashi in Katsina State, at the Constituency Empowerment programme
sponsored by Senator Bello Mandiya representing Funtua Senatorial District in
the Senate. According to a statement issued
by the Special Assistant (Press) to the President of the Senate, Mr. Ezrel
Tabiowo, the Senate president also commiserated with the people of Katsina
State over the recent deadly attacks in the state by the bandits. “I want to assure you that
we are going to continue to work with President Buhari till we are able to find
lasting solutions to this problem of insecurity in our country. “We will also ensure that
government provides infrastructure across the country that makes life
meaningful for Nigerians,” Lawan said. The occasion which drew a large
crowd of party faithful and supporters was also attended by Governor Aminu
Bello Masari of Katsina State. Lawan applauded Senator Mandiya
for his initiative in empowering his constituents and assured him of his
support. “Today, we are supporting
a young man, who has been supported by the people of Funtua zone. Senator Bello
Mandiya has been a very loyal, committed and reliable senator. “I want to inform you, his
senatorial district, that you have found a worthy successor to Senator Abu
Ibrahim in Senator Mandiya. “They say the young shall
grow. This young senator will grow very rapidly because he has very good hands
taking care of him. “For me, I remain
committed to making sure Senator Bello Mandiya succeeds and he grows and mature
into a great Senator,” Lawan said. The Senate president said the
constituency project is so badly misconstrued by many. “This (constituency
project) is what we call the empowerment of the most ordinary Nigerians that
otherwise wouldn’t have been remembered when you’re talking about the national
budget. “But because members of
the National Assembly are so close to the ordinary man, we try to look for
those issues that make a difference in their individual and collective lives. “So for those who would today receive the
motorcycles, the water pumps for irrigation and other items here, I want to
congratulate you and assure you that this is just the beginning,” Lawan
said.