 Peter Uzoho The federal government has identified 45
out of 178 gas flaring sites in the country, which will be awarded to
successful bidders for the commencement of the first phase of the National Gas
Flare Commercialisation Programme (NGFCP). However, some of the bidders have expressed
reservations over alleged anomalies in the programme’s bidding process. The Director of the Department of Petroleum
Resources (DPR), Mr. Sarki Auwalu, gave details of the programme yesterday at a
bidders’ conference in Lagos. The programme was launched in December 2016
by the then Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachukwu, to
offer gas for sale by the federal government through a transparent and
competitive bidding process, with a structure devised to provide project
bankability for the flare gas buyers. Speaking to journalists on the sidelines of
the bidders’ conference, Auwalu said the 200 bidders would be competing among
themselves over the 45 flare points. “There are 200 bidders that have been
shortlisted. Over 800 bid and we looked at the capacity, the quantity, the
quality of what they have. So, these 200 bidders are competing for about 45
flare sites for now and there are other flare sites, which are coming on board.
And this is to show that investors are interested in Nigeria because of the
potential,” he said. He said the process for the emergence of
the preferred bidders was ongoing, adding that it would take them 60 days to
evaluate proposals of the bidders based on certain criteria. “The process is on. When the preferred
bidders submit, it will take us 60 days to evaluate and this evaluation will
take the process of making sure that all the bidders have submitted their bonds
and given their Milestone Development Agreement. “Milestone Development Agreement is
key. If you bid and you win, you have to tell us when you are going to deliver
the project and you have to bond it. So we are trying to make sure that what we
are doing is reality,” he stated. Auwalu, however, described the programme as
the first of its kind in the world, saying that it is going to be beneficial to
Nigerians and profitable to the investors in the project. He added: “This gas resource as we
mentioned, we have over 200 trillion standard cubic feet that is already
discovered and we produce 800 billion daily and we utilise some percentage of
it, export some percentage and we flare 11 per cent of it. “We are taking back that 11 per cent
that is flared.  It is part of Nigeria’s
commitment to the Climate Change Agreement that we signed in Paris in
2015.” Meanwhile, during a special session at the
conference, some of the bidders bemoaned what they perceived as lack of
fairness and transparency in the bidding process. One of the bidders and the Director of ONEL
Oil Exploration and Production Limited, Mr. Onwusameka Ogbowuokara, decried
DPR’s emphasis on making profit from the project through excessive charges on
the bidders. Ogbowuokara who described the process as a
scam, however, wondered why some companies were exempted from the bidding process
and were given flare sites. He said: “And if you are concerned
about our environment, why do you lay too much emphasis on making profit? Now
you have just released a few flare points and many of them are zero.  Are we not ashamed as Nigerians that this big
project could attract this kind of shame? 
Zero on the platform and we have foreigners who are looking at us. Are
we not ashamed?  And you called us here
today again. “You dedicated a platform for this
project, how well does it work? You go to the platform, you post question
because you are in need of an answer and nobody answers you. I called somebody
in DPR, maybe the person is here today, I said, why is it so? He said ‘there is
somebody that is responsible for that thing’. “We had already taken a stand to sue
all of you but our consultant said, ‘no, don’t do that.’ What we want you to do
now is to go back to your offices; look at yourselves, look at your children.
What legacy are you going to leave for your children? Not just for us.  This thing is a scam,” he explained.