 •Moody’s expresses
concern over Nigeria, other West African countries’ debts Obinna Chima The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has
revised downward its 2020 Gross Domestic Product (GDP) forecast for Nigeria to
two per cent, from the 2.5 per cent it had predicted earlier. This is as on ne of the leading global
rating agencies, Moody’s Investors Service, yesterday noted that government
debt burdens in Nigeria and other Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) countries, have risen significantly. According to IMF, the cut reflects the
impact of lower international oil prices while inflation in the country is
expected to pick up. In addition, it predicted that
“deteriorating terms of trade and capital outflows will weaken the country’s
external position.” The Washington-based institution stated
this in its Article IV Consultation on Nigeria, which saw some of its officials
visiting Lagos and Abuja between January 29-February 12, 2020, for discussions
on Nigeria’s economy. The IMF team was led by the Senior Resident Representative
and Mission Chief for Nigeria, Amine Mati. The statement signed by Mati, at the end of
the visit, was posted yesterday on the fund’s website. Mati said external vulnerabilities in the
country were increasing, reflecting a higher current account deficit and
declining reserves that remain highly vulnerable to capital flow reversals. The exchange rate has remained stable,
helped by steady sales of foreign exchange in various windows. “High fiscal deficits are complicating
monetary policy. Weak non-oil revenue mobilisation led to further deterioration
of the fiscal deficit, which was mostly financed by CBN overdrafts. The
interest payments to revenue ratio remains high at about 60 per cent. “Under current policies, the outlook is
challenging. The mission’s growth forecast for 2020 was revised down to two per
cent to reflect the impact of lower international oil prices. Inflation is
expected to pick up, while deteriorating terms of trade and capital outflows
will weaken the country’s external position,” he said. However, Mati noted that policymakers in
the country have recognised the vulnerabilities, which led to a number of
initiatives that had been introduced. “The authorities have taken a number of
welcome steps. These include measures to boost revenue through the adoption of
the Finance Bill and Deep Offshore Basin Act and improve budget execution by
adopting the 2020 budget by end-December 2019. “The tightening of monetary policy in
January 2020 through higher cash reserve requirements to respond to looming inflationary
pressures is welcome. Progress on structural reforms—particularly in Doing
Business, finalising power sector reforms and strengthening governance—is
commendable. “Major policy adjustments remain necessary
to contain short-term vulnerabilities, build resilience, and unlock growth
potential. “Non-oil revenue mobilisation—including
through tax policy and administration improvements—remains urgent to ensure
financing constraints are contained and the interest payments to revenue ratio
sustainable. “Recourse to central bank overdrafts should
be limited and the mission supports the authorities’ plans to use the low
domestic yield environment to front load their financing requirements,” it
stated. He stressed the need for further tightening
of monetary policy by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), “albeit through more
conventional methods.” This, the multilateral institution said,
was needed to contain domestic and external pressures arising from large
amounts of maturing CBN bills. As part of its restrictive monetary policy
stance, the CBN Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) at the end of its last meeting
had raised the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) from 22.5 per cent to 27.5 per cent. Mati, however, reiterated the advice on
ending direct central bank interventions, securitising overdrafts to introduce
longer-term government instruments to mop up excess liquidity and moving
towards a more flexible exchange rate. “Banking system vulnerabilities should
continue to be addressed. The mission welcomed recent efforts to reduce legacy
non-performing loans. The introduction of risk-based minimum capital
requirements would also help strengthen bank resilience,” he stated. The
IMF officials also noted that structural reforms, particularly executing the
much-delayed power sector recovery plan, implementing the anti-corruption and
financial inclusion strategy, as well as addressing infrastructure and gender
gaps, are essential to boost inclusive growth in the country. “Nigeria’s border closure will continue to
have significant economic consequences on the country’s neighbours. It is
important that all involved parties quickly resolve the issues keeping the
borders closed—including to stop the smuggling of banned products. “The
team held productive discussions with senior government and central bank
officials. It also met with representatives of the banking system, the private
sector, civil society organisations and development partners. The team wishes
to thank the authorities and all those it met for the productive discussions,
excellent cooperation, and warm hospitality,” the statement added. Mati, stated that the pace of economic
recovery in the country remains slow, as declining real income and weak
investment continued to weigh on economic activity. He said inflation, driven by higher food
prices, has risen, marking the end of the disinflationary trend seen in 2019. Moody’s
Expresses Concern over Nigeria, Other West African Countries’ Debts Meanwhile, one of the leading global rating
agencies, Moody’s Investors Service, has noted that government debt burdens in
Nigeria and other Economic Community of West African States(ECOWAS) countries,
have risen significantly. The development, according to the agency,
has offset much of the debt relief from the early 2000s and raising concerns
over debt sustainability. “Debt burdens in the ECOWAS are now
almost double what they were in 2010 and are unlikely to fall, raising concerns
about debt sustainability, with potentially significant economic and social
costs,” a Moody’s Vice President – Senior Credit Officer, Lucie Villa,
stated in a report she co-authored. The report explained that risks to debt
sustainability included adverse debt dynamics, weak financeability and debt
management capacity. “These factors are particularly present in
Togo (B3 stable), and to some extent, Ghana (B3 positive) and Nigeria (B2
negative). “For some sovereigns in the region,
improved institutional strength and shock-absorption capacity bolster their
ability to sustain higher debt burdens compared with 10 years ago. “For instance, the positive outlook on
Ghana’s rating reflects our view that institutional improvements will help the
government manage potential shocks and avoid a sharp and self-fulfilling
increase in debt,” it added. According to the report, although Nigeria’s
debt levels is still low, debt dynamics in the country is becoming adverse and
“fiscal metrics are deteriorating while debt management capacity remains weak.” “Others, including Mali (B3 stable) and
Niger (B3 stable) have more sustainable debt burdens under Moody’s central
scenarios but they remain vulnerable to shocks that could materially increase
their debt burdens and undermine their debt sustainability. “More highly rated Senegal (Ba3 stable) and
Côte d’Ivoire (Ba3 stable) have the highest external debt owed to private
creditors as a share of GDP, but have the best financial management capacity,”
it added. Nigeria’s total public debt, comprising the
Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN), the 36 states and Federal Capital
Territory (FCT) stood at N26.215 trillion as at September 2019, according to
data from the Debt Management Office (DMO). This indicated a two per cent
growth when compared with the N25.701 trillion recorded as at June 30, 2019.
The DMO Director General, Ms. Patience Oniha, had said the total debt stock
implied that in the quarter July to September 2019, a two per cent growth was
recorded, adding that the debt included promissory notes of N821.651 billion,
which had been issued to settle the FGN’s arrears to oil marketers and state
governments under the promissory programme, approved by the Federal Executive
Council and the National Assembly. The country’s debt profile is expected to
rise further in the coming days as the federal government plans to appoint
transaction advisers for a potential $3.3 billion Eurobond issue through an
open competitive bid process. The new Eurobond, the first after the 2018
issuance, would be used to partly fund the 2020 budget deficit and refinance an
existing $500 million Eurobond due in January next year. Already, the request for its approval has
been sent to the National Assembly and the process is expected to be completed
this quarter.