 With medical tourism costing Nigerians at least $1
billion every year, the launch of a new branch of Clina Lancet in Abuja is a
game-changer, writes  Sunday
Ehigiator very year, Nigeria loses a whooping sum of $1
billion to medical tourism as hundreds of Nigerians troop abroad in search of
medical and diagnostic treatments. Despite various promises by past and present
administrations at local, state and federal levels to provide reliable and
effective health systems regarding medical and diagnostic treatments, the
hordes of Nigerian nationals leaving Africa’s most populous nation to seek
health care delivery remain. The last
protracted visit of Nigeria’s President, Muhammadu Buhari to the United Kingdom
for medical and diagnostic treatment still looms large in the mind. His
repeated visits to his favourite hospital in London are a testament that all is
not well with the country’s health system. Some 20 years ago, Nigeria along
with a couple of other African nations at a parley agreed to a pledge: that at
least 15 percent of their annual budget would be dedicated to health care. That has yet to
materialise. It is little wonder that each year, from India to USA; from
Britain to Germany; From South Africa to China, Nigerians have continued to
place their hopes in foreign nations to stay healthy and keep living. The World
Health Organisation (WHO), ranked Nigeria as 187 out of 190 in the health
index. All that is changing gradually as Clina Lancet Laboratories was opened
recently. To put the
emergence of Clina Lancet in Nigeria’s health care ecosystem in context, an
anecdote will suffice. At a restaurant,
six medical doctors were discussing a man limping across a road. One of the
doctors said: “From the way the man is walking, he should be suffering from
left knee arthritis.” But another
objected: “No. No. It must be plantar facitis.” The debate spread
as a third doctor noted: “From what I could discern, the man has suffered an
ankle sprain.” Yet another
doctor in the group stated: “My colleagues, just look at the way the man is
walking: it’s obvious he can’t lift his knee. Apparently, he has lower motor
neuron lesion.” The fifth one
stated: “I will conclude that the man is grappling with hemiplegia scissors
gait.” While the sixth
doctor was about to give his medical verdict, the subject of their clinical
calculations walked in, asking the restaurant attendants: “Please, is there a
cobbler around that can repair the sandals I’m wearing?” The history of
medical misdiagnosis is long and unending in Nigeria, filled with the graves of
prominent and obscure Nigerians. However, with the
grand opening of the new and modern diagnostic facility of Clina-Lancet
Laboratories (a member of the Cerba-Lancet Africa Joint Venture) on December
10, 2019 in Abuja, many a Nigerian doctor does not need to depend on mental or
historical calculations to diagnose. Cerba healthcare
has decided to invest substantially by building a local network of clinical
pathology laboratories on the African continent. To illustrate its commitment
and readiness, the group of laboratories which cut across Nigeria is ISO
certified to ISO 15189 standards in recognition of process and procedures at
par with global standards. The attestation to the value this expansion adds to
the healthcare space is validated by its international accreditation by SANAS
15189: 2012. Clina Lancet
Laboratories, an ultramodern technologically- advanced and independent
pathology laboratory in Lagos, unveiled its world-class facility in Abuja at 1,
Yedseram Crescent (Opposite Farmers Market) Maitama to provide laboratory
services of international standards with 100% accurate and reliable test
results at all times. Maitama is strategically positioned to serve healthcare,
corporate and environmental service delivery in the FCT and the public. Besides Abuja and
Lagos, Clina Lancet Laboratories have branches in Port Harcourt and Warri. As a
long-standing group of laboratories, the leading medical diagnostics firm in
Nigeria is focused on clinical pathology and providing over 4,000 test
offerings covering haematology, chemical pathology, endocrinology, histology,
molecular biology, cytogenetic, microbiology among others. Its goal is to
provide medical laboratory, consultative and referral services with the most
extensive range of tests available. Not a few agreed
that with the diagnostics firm’s spread across Nigeria’s geopolitical zones,
medical tourism, brain drain and depletion of foreign exchange will be reduced. Speaking at the
launch of the firm’s ultramodern centre in Abuja, the MD/CEO of Clina-Lancet
Laboratories, Dr. Olayemi Dawodu, pointed out that the strategic role the new
outlet plays in the company’s commitment to provide its quota in the delivery
of universal health coverage by rendering quality world-class diagnostic
services in Nigeria. A similar view
was shared at the launch by the CEO of Cerba Lancet Africa, Stephane Carre. The DCEO of Cerba
Healthcare, Jerome Thill, expressed the belief that as Cerba Healthcare
continues to build on its past experience and partnership with experts to
expand clinical pathology in Africa and deploy a quality service to the medical
community, Nigerians and other resident in the country will be the better for
it. Dawodu explained
further: “Clina Lancet Laboratories is committed to providing its quota to the
delivery of universal health coverage by rendering quality world-class
diagnostic services to Nigerians. Our decision to open a new branch here in
Abuja is in line with our vision and commitment to provide international
standard services. As an organization, we are looking forward to serving the
good people of Abuja.” Carre was full of
praise for the invited guests who graced the occasion saying, “We thank all
dignitaries and guests for taking out time to be present at this unveiling. We
are also making plans to put in place grassroots quality healthcare not only in
FCT but across the nation.” The grand opening
of the new branch was graced by leaders from the healthcare sector, members of
the public and private sectors, diplomatic community and other stakeholders. They included
representative of the Nigeria Medical Association’s President, Prof. Francis
Adedayo Faduyile; Dr. Phillip Ekpe; Chairman NMA FCT, Abuja, the Ambassador of
France to Nigeria, Mr. Jerome Pasquir; 
MD of the NNPC Clinic, Dr. Musa Shaibu; Dr. Adaeze Oreh, FMOH; Dr. Babatunde
Irukera, Executive Director Competition and Consumer Protection
Council; and Dr. Olumide Okunlola, Senior Medical Adviser, IFC/World Bank. Others were Dr. Banji Filani, Technical
Adviser Basic Healthcare Coverage Fund; Vivian Ihekweazu of Nigeria Health
Watch; and medical directors of several public and private health institutions. Pix: Clina Lancet Lab.jpgCAPTION:
L-R: NMA Chairman, Abuja representing the
National President, Dr. Uche Ekpe; Medical Director, Obisus Medical Services,
Ejiro Kragha-Ogomigo; CEO, Cerba Lancet Africa, Stephane Carre; Managing
Director, NNPC Medical Services, Dr. Shaibu Musa; MD/CEO, Clina Lancet Nigeria,
Dr. Olayemi Dawodu; Ambassador of France to Nigeria, Jérôme Pasquier; Senior
Health Policy Advisor, Federal Ministry of Health, Adaeze Oreh; DG Federal
Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, Dr. Babatunde Irukera; Deputy
Senior Executive Officer, Cerba Lancet Africa, Jerome Thill and General Manager
and COO, Cerba Lancet Africa, Matthieu