 Seriki Adinoyi in Jos Medical and Dental Consultants’ Association of Nigeria
(MDCAN) has threatened to withdraw their services if the National University
Commission (NUC) insists that doctors teaching clinical students in the
university must have a PhD degree, demanding that the circular to Vice
Chancellors of universities conveying the new policy be immediately withdrawn
to avert the strike. Addressing
a press conference in Jos, Plateau State, the President of MDCAN, Professor
Kenneth Ozoilo, said the modality of the strike will be that MDCAN will first
withdraw services from teaching undergraduate medical students from the 24th of
February, 2020. Then it will be followed with withdrawal from teaching doctors
undergoing postgraduate training, before it will finally withdraw services
entirely from the health sector if NUC fails to withdraw the letter. NUC
had written to Vice Chancellors of universities that Medical doctors teaching
students in the universities must have a PhD to qualify them for the job,
noting that residency training leading to the possession of Fellowship is not
enough to qualify them to teach medical students in the university. It
therefore advised doctors that have undergone residency training to enroll for
a PhD programme to qualify them to teach in medical schools, noting that the
prerequisite however, does not apply to doctors that are willing to limit
themselves strictly to clinical practice without delving into teaching, since
their residency training is sufficient for practice. But
reacting, the MDCAN President explained that the tedious residency training
that lasts for a minimum of six years was equivalent to PhD  degree and should be considered as a PhD. He
added that Consultants having passed through residency do not need PhD to
effectively train the students. He added that the residency training has both
academic and research components which makes it sufficient for practice and
training of medical students. Ozoilo
said, “We agree that PhD is a highly respected degree; we don’t have issues
with that, but it should be by choice for doctors that have completed their
residency programme, and should not be made compulsory for them because of the
peculiarity of medical training. Acquiring of PhD is of no much value in the
training; it is more of a face value and cosmetic. “We
have written to NUC to this effect, expressing all these concerns, but they did
not even deem it fit to acknowledge our letter not to talk of responding to it.
That was what led to the ultimatum of 24th of this month. “No
university will employ you to teach clinical disciplines if you have not done
residency training, because you have to be hands-on-patients in training the
students.” He
said that MDCAN rarely embark of strike, “but the NUC circular will be
compelling us to do this, but it can still be averted if NUC will do the
needful. We call on all well-meaning Nigerians to intervene to avert the
strike. We are aware that some Vice Chancellors, I think Delta State University
or so, have started implementing it, and we can’t fold our arms and allow it to
continue this way.”