 Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja The Society for Forensic Accounting and Fraud
Prevention (SFAFP), has vowed to apply full force in the fight against fraud
and corruption in the society. A board member of SFAFP, Prof. Suleiman Aruwa, made
this revelation, recently, ahead of the Society’s year 2020 proficiency
training on forensic accounting, fraud prevention and management scheduled to
start in May and to run through August, 2020. He added that the body was refocusing from fraud
auditing to corruption auditing, stressing that although fraud has traces those
of corruption cannot be gleaned. “So we are focusing on a very new horizon that people
are not even looking at. The key problem we have currently is lack of diligent
investigation and prosecution and because of that we are currently engaging the
ICPC, the EFCC and the Code of Conduct Bureau,” Aruwa said. He said the society was assisting governmental
units to strengthen their systems so that fraud can be prevented in the first
instance. “Prevention is the issue. I can tell you that in
developed economies there are more corruption but the system would not allow
them to slip. “So we are faced with first and foremost in building
systems that will not even allow these breaches; that will make it difficult
for you to commit any form of fraud.” This position was corroborated by SFAFP’s Executive
Secretary, Dr. Abuchi Ogbuju. He attributed the lapses in the anti-graft war to poor
investigation and prosecution, insisting that it is wrong to arrest a suspect
before investigation. “To arrest somebody and start investigation is
not it. You finish your investigation and get all your details without even the
person knowing. It might take up to three years but by the time you are done,
it is just a matter of arresting the person and charging him to court with
evidence and the trial will run,” Ogbuju said. He noted that the deployment of forensic ideas and tools
working with data fully analysed and fully comprehended would increase fraud
detection to between 90-99 per cent. “So you leave little or no room for a perpetrator
or a suspect to get a way because the facts are there,” he added. He also noted that with the involvement forensic
experts in investigations of fraud, shredded and burnt materials can be
decoded.