By Deji Elumoye and Chuks Okocha The Senate President, Dr Ahmad Lawan, Tuesday revisited the burning issue of insecurity across the length and breadth of the country with an assurance that the upper legislative chamber will next week consider at plenary the report of its Ad hoc Committee on Security. This is coming just as Senator Aishatu Ahmed raised the alarm that the Boko Haram insurgents have killed three soldiers and burnt several churches in recent attacks in her Adamawa central constituency. Lawan, who spoke sequel to the Senate consideration of a motion moved by Senator Ahmed via Order 42 and 52 of the Senate Standing Rules, stressed that the Senate will look into the committee’s recommendations with a view to finding solutions to Nigeria’s mounting security problems. The Red Chamber had in January constituted an 18-man ad hoc committee headed by the Senate Leader, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi, to interface with the security agencies on the level of insecurity in the country and report back to the upper chamber within two weeks. The Senate, Lawan assured, will engage the executive arm of government on the resolutions of the ad hoc committee as contained in its report, adding that the Upper Chamber will also work closely with the House of Representatives and the citizenry towards ensuring that solutions are found to the lingering security problems in the country. He said: “The Senate discussed and debated so much on the insecurity in the country and set up an ad hoc committee under the leadership of the Senate Leader. “The committee is working very hard. We are trying to look for solutions to the insecurity bedevilling the country. We are not going to rest on our oars until we are able to provide solutions. “This is the essence of our being in government. Of course, it will require that we work with the House of Representatives and the Executive as well as the citizens because I believe that the citizens have to be taken into confidence in the fight against insecurity. “We will not waste any time. As soon as the report is ready, I believe by next week, probably the report will be ready. We are going to look at the report of the ad hoc committee and take those important and very viable resolutions, and engage with the executive arm of government.”