 By Matthew Hassan Kukah We have gathered around the remains of Michael Nnadi in supplication but also as solemn witnesses to the penetrating darkness that hovers over our country. I have the rare honour of being considered the principal mourner in this ugly tragedy. It is not an honour that I am worthy of receiving. The honour belongs to God Almighty who created Michael and marked out this moment and pathway for him. The greater honour goes to his immediate family whose devotion as Catholics laid the foundation for his faith and vocation. To his grandmother, Mrs. Eunice Nwokocha, a most simple, beautiful and devout Catholic woman whose devotion and dedication saw Michael and his siblings, Chukwuebuka, Francis, Augustine and Raphael brought up in all the fine principles and disciplines of the Catholic faith. The way that Mama and her grandchildren
handled this family tragedy has shown clearly the depth of their faith. I got
to know Mama only after the sudden death of her daughter, Caroline, who had
been a devoted Lector in our Cathedral. On the day we learnt that Michael and
the other Seminarians were kidnapped, breaking the news to Mama and the
children was not an easy task. She took the news with equanimity and we focused
on praying for their release. She and the grandchildren lived through the
torments of the brutal, harsh and senseless haranguing of the kidnappers, who
are totally empty of any show of human emotions. When the worst finally happened, breaking the
news to her and the grandchildren proved to be one of the most emotionally
challenging moments for me. She had called me three days earlier to say that
the kidnappers had told her that they had killed Michael. I dismissed it by
telling her that first, I had discouraged her from taking their calls, and
secondly that this was part of the psychological warfare by these evil men. On
Wednesday 29th, Peter Paul, the brave young man who had served as the main
negotiator with the kidnappers, had already told us that they had gone to the
village where the kidnappers said they had dumped the bodies of both Michael
and Mrs. Ataga but found no corpses. This was the thread of consolation we held
on to as a means of solace that Michael was still alive. When we concluded the negotiations with the
kidnappers on Thursday evening, I was in the Seminary to receive the three
Seminarians and, although we received only two, I was still confident that
Michael was still alive. We were simply going to sit and wait out for the next
call and the agonizing round of negotiations again. I left for Abuja that same
evening to continue my trip to Sokoto the next day. It was on my way to the
airport to catch a flight back to Sokoto on that Saturday morning that Fr Daboh
called to tell me that the corpse of Mrs. Ataga had been found and that there
was a second unidentified corpse, which they were being asked to come and
identify if it was Michael. My heart sank. After the call,
I switched off my phone in denial, but hoping for some reprieve to enable me
board my flight with some sanity. I arrived Sokoto and refused to switch on my
phone for some time. When I finally did, I refused to read the text messages,
but then, Fr Habila’s call came through at about 1pm with the news that, sadly,
they had identified the corpse as that of Michael. I did not know where to start
and how to break the news to Mama. Happily, two of our senior Parishioners, Sir
Julius Dike and Matthews Otalike, were on hand and I summoned them to my house.
It took us the better part of seven hours to negotiate how to break the news
because, first, Mama was in the market and I felt she should at least finish
the day’s business in peace. Finally breaking the news opened a different
chapter in this ugly, painful but memorable tragedy. Like the death of Lazarus,
it would become clear to me that Michael’s death would bring glory to God. Later that evening as I sat down to try and
console Mama, she looked up at me and said tearfully, “My Lord, you said
Michael was still alive. Is he really dead?” Before I could say anything, she
provided a moving answer: “My Lord, but Michael entered Seminary with all his
heart and body, all”, she said with finality. From that evening, I watched her
regain her composure and right up to Saturday, the evening before I left
Sokoto, she had become a consoler and an inspiration to others. The depth and impact of this tragedy belong
first, to the three surviving colleagues of Michael, the entire Seminary
community led by the Rector, Fr. Habila Daboh, his team of formators and entire
family of Good Shepherd Seminary. All have lived through almost two months of
trauma, agony, pain and despair. They have been held together by the glue of
deep faith, hope and family solidarity. I commend all the Formators for
standing together and guiding the Seminarians through this dark tunnel of
emotional pain in the days that turned to weeks, and weeks that turned to
months. The entire Catholic community in the Province, led by our Metropolitan,
Archbishop Matthew Ndagoso, all shared in this burden. His Grace and the Rector
will both speak to us at the end of the Mass. The third layer of pain has been borne by the
entire country and the Catholic world. The national and international reactions
to the death of this young man have made me step back and ask what message God
has for our country. Michael is the first Seminarian to carry the mark of this
brutality and wickedness. Priests have died in the hands of these wicked human
beings. Michael was only a Seminarian in his first year of training. I had seen
him in his cassock which he wore in my presence, not with pride but with
dignity. Why would the tragic death of a young man such as him elicit such an
unprecedented level of emotions here and around the world? Maria Lozano, a
staff of the Aid to the Church In Need, an organisation dedicated to the cause
of the persecution of Christians around the world, called me frantically
immediately after the news of the kidnapping of the Seminarians went out. The
next day, she sent me an emotional voice message to say that she heard that
Michael was an orphan and that since the kidnappers will be looking for money,
his life might be in danger if they realise that he is an orphan? Could she
mobilise especially mothers to become parents for him, to keep him and others
in their hearts and to continue to pray for him?  Maria remained with us emotionally and
requested for information about the burial. When the Archbishop approved the date of the
burial, I passed the information to her immediately. By the next day, February
5th, she sent me a message to say that when she asked people around the world
to light a candle for Michael on the date of his burial, 2, 436 persons from
Afghanistan, Pakistan, United States of America, Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia,
Madagascar, South Africa, Congo, Mali, Spain, Turkey, Saudi Arabia responded.
Germany alone had a total of 3,305 persons in a matter of hours. In the light
of this, I wondered, who are we to mourn? Who are we to refuse this crown of
honour and glory? We ceased to mourn for Michael thereon. Your Grace, my brother Bishops, Rev Fathers,
Rev. Sisters, and all the good people of God, I therefore bring you only
greetings and praise to God from all of us in Sokoto Diocese. This is a solemn
moment for the body of Christ. This is for us the moment of decision. This is
the moment that separates darkness from light, good from evil. Our nation is
like a ship stranded on the high seas, rudderless and with broken navigational
aids. Today, our years of hypocrisy, duplicity, fabricated integrity, false
piety, empty morality, fraud and Pharisaism have caught up with us. Nigeria is
on the crossroads and its future hangs precariously in a balance. This is a
wakeup call for us. As St. Paul reminds us, the night is far spent, and the day
is at hand. Therefore, let us cast away the works of darkness and put on the
armour of light (Rom. 13:12). It is time to confront and dispel the clouds of
evil that hover over us. Nigeria is at a point where we must call for a
verdict. There must be something that a man, nay, a nation should be ready to die
for. Sadly, or even tragically, today, Nigeria, does not possess that set of
goals or values for which any sane citizen is prepared to die for her. Perhaps,
I should correct myself and say that the average office holder is ready to die
to protect his office but not for the nation that has given him or her that
office. The Yorubas say that if it takes you 25 years to practice madness, how
much time would you have to put it into real life? We have practiced madness
for too long. Our attempt to build a nation has become like the agony of
Sisyphus who angered the gods and had to endure the frustration of rolling a
stone up the mountain. Each time he got near the top, the gods would tip the
stone back and he would go back to start all over again. What has befallen our
nation? Nigeria needs to pause for a moment and think.
No one more than the President of Nigeria, Major General Muhammadu Buhari, who
was voted for in 2015 on the grounds of his own promises to rout Boko Haram and
place the country on an even keel. In an address at the prestigious Policy
Think Tank, Chatham House in London, just before the elections, Major General
Buhari told his audience: “I as a retired General and a former Head of State
have always known about our soldiers. They are capable and they are well
trained, patriotic, brave and always ready to do their duty. If am elected
President, the world will have no reason to worry about Nigeria. Nigeria will
return to its stabilising role in West Africa. We will pay sufficient attention
to the welfare of our soldiers in and out of service. We will develop adequate
and modern arms and ammunition. We will improve intelligence gathering and
border patrols to choke Boko Haram’s financial and equipment channels. We will
be tough on terrorism and tough on its root causes by initiating a
comprehensive economic development and promoting infrastructural development…we
will always act on time and not allow problems to irresponsibly fester. And I,
Muhammadu Buhari, will always lead from the front.” There is no need to make any further comments
on this claim. No one in that hall or anywhere in Nigeria doubted the President
who ran his campaign on a tank supposedly full of the fuel of integrity and
moral probity. No one could have imagined that in winning the Presidency,
General Buhari would bring nepotism and clannishness into the military and the
ancillary security agencies, that his government would be marked by supremacist
and divisive policies that would push our country to the brink. This President
has displayed the greatest degree of insensitivity in managing our country’s
rich diversity. He has subordinated the larger interests of the country to the
hegemonic interests of his co-religionists and clansmen and women. The
impression created now is that, to hold a key and strategic position in Nigeria
today, it is more important to be a northern Muslim than a Nigerian. Today, in Nigeria, the noble religion of Islam
has convulsed. It has become associated with some of worst fears among our
people. Muslim scholars, traditional rulers and intellectuals have continued to
cry out helplessly, asking for their religion and region to be freed from this
chokehold. This is because, in all of this, neither Islam nor the north can
identify any real benefits from these years that have been consumed by the
locusts that this government has unleashed on our country. The Fulani, his
innocent kinsmen, have become the subject of opprobrium, ridicule, defamation,
calumny and obloquy. His north has become one large grave yard, a valley of dry
bones, the nastiest and the most brutish part of our dear country. Why have the
gods rejected this offering? Despite running the most nepotistic and
narcissistic government in known history, there are no answers to the millions
of young children on the streets in northern Nigeria, the north still has the
worst indices of poverty, insecurity, stunting, squalor and destitution. His
Eminence, the Sultan of Sokoto, and the Emir of Kano are the two most powerful
traditional and moral leaders in Islam today. None of them is happy and they
have said so loud and clear. The Sultan recently lamented the tragic
consequences of power being in the wrong hands. Every day, Muslim clerics are
posting tales of lamentation about their fate. Now, the Northern Elders, who in
2015 believed that General Buhari had come to redeem the north have now turned
against the President. We are being
told that this situation has nothing to do with religion. Really? It is what
happens when politicians use religion to extend the frontiers of their ambition
and power. Are we to believe that simply because Boko Haram kills Muslims too,
they wear no religious garb? Are we to deny the evidence before us, of
kidnappers separating Muslims from infidels or compelling Christians to convert
or die? If your son steals from me, do you solve the problem by saying he also
steals from you? Again, the Sultan got it right: let the northern political
elite who have surrendered the space claim it back immediately. The persecution
of Christians in northern Nigeria is as old as the modern Nigerian state. Their
experiences and fears of northern, Islamic domination are documented in the
Willinks Commission Report way back in 1956. It was also the reason why they
formed a political platform called, the Non-Muslim League. All of us must
confess in all honesty that in the years that have passed, the northern Muslim
elite has not developed a moral basis for adequate power sharing with their
Christian co-regionalists. We deny at our own expense. By denying Christians
lands for places of worship across most of the northern states, ignoring the
systematic destruction of churches all these years, denying Christians adequate
recruitment, representation and promotions in the state civil services, denying
their indigenous children scholarships, marrying Christian women or converting
Christians while threatening Muslim women and prospective converts with death,
they make building a harmonious community impossible. Nation building cannot
happen without adequate representation and a deliberate effort at creating for
all members a sense, a feeling, of belonging, and freedom to make their
contributions. This is the window that the killers of Boko Haram have exploited
and turned into a door to death. It is why killing Christians and destroying
Christianity is seen as one of their key missions. On our part, I
believe that this is a defining moment for Christians and Christianity in
Nigeria. We Christians must be honest enough to accept that we have taken so
much for granted and made so much sacrifice in the name of nation building. We
accepted President Buhari when he came with General Idiagbon, two Muslims and
two northerners. We accepted Abiola and Kingibe, thinking that we had crossed
the path of religion, but we were grossly mistaken. When Jonathan became
President, and Senator David Mark remained Senate President while Patricia Ette
was chosen by the South West became a Speaker. The Muslim
members revolted and forced her resignation with lies and forgery. The same House
would shamelessly say that they had no records of her indictment. Today, we are
living with a Senate whose entire leadership is in the hands of Muslims.
Christians have continued to support them. For how long shall we continue on
this road with different ambitions? Christians must rise up and defend their
faith with all the moral weapons they have. We must become more robust in
presenting the values of Christianity, especially our message of love and
non-violence to a violent society. Among the wolves of the world, we must
become more politically alert, wise as the serpent and humble as the dove (Mt.
10:16). Every Religion
has the seeds of its own redemption or destruction. It is a choice between
Caesar and God. We cannot borrow the crown of Caesar without consequences. The
boundaries between faith and reason are delicate but they are fundamental to
how a society builds a moral code. Faith without reason breeds the fanatic, the
demagogue who genuinely but wrongly believes that he has heard the voice of a
god ordering him to kill another. Reason without faith produces the ideologues
who will also kill because the ideology of the state orders him to do so. Societies can
only survive when a Constitutional basis has been established to create a
balance between both extremes and to place our common humanity at the centre of
every pursuit. My dear brothers and sisters, Anger, the quest
for Vengeance, are a legitimate inheritance of the condition of unredeemed
human being. Both have appeal. Through Violence, you can murder the murderer,
but you cannot murder Murder. Through violence, you can kill the Liar, but you
cannot kill Lies or install truth. Through Violence, you can murder the
Terrorist, but you cannot end Terrorism. Through Violence, you can murder the
Violent, but you cannot end Violence. Through Violence, you can murder the
Hater, but you cannot end Hatred. Unredeemed man sees vengeance as power,
strength and the best means to teach the offender a lesson. These are the ways
of the flesh. Christianity parts ways with other Religions
when it comes to what to do with the enemy. Here, we must admit, Christianity
stands alone. This is the challenge for us as Christians. Others believe in an
eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, or that one can take either blood money or
make some form of reparation one way or the other. However, for us Christians,
Jesus stands right in the middle with a message that is the opposite of all
that is sensible to us as human beings. Put back your sword (Mt. 26: 52). Turn
the other cheek (Mt. 5:38). Pray for your enemy (Mt. 5: 44). Give the thief
your cloak (Lk. 6:29). None of these makes sense to the human mind without
faith. This is why Jesus said the only solution is for us to be born again (Jn.
3:3). The challenge before us is to behold the face of Jesus and ask the
question, Are we Born against hatred, anger, violence and vengeance? There is hope, my dear friends. Are we angry?
Yes, we are. Are we sad? Of course, we are. Are we tempted to vengeance?
Indeed, we are. Do we feel betrayed? You bet. Do we know what to do?
Definitely. Do we know when to do it? Why not? Do we know how? Absolutely. Are
we in a war? Yes. But what would Christ have us do? The only way He has pointed
out to us is the non-violent way. It is the road less travelled, but it is the
only way. How and why does God choose these young
persons as our models? Leah Sharibu and now Michael, all teenagers when they
confronted evil and became martyrs. In a recent report in Daily Trust on
February 2, 2020, I read the story of one of the Dapchi girls and their
incredible show of bravery in the face of fire. They were asked by their
ferocious captors to point out the Christians among them or they would all face
death. In response, they said in unison that they were all Muslims. Then, she
continued, “when they intensified their threat to kill us, Leah stood up and
said that she was a Christian. She said they could go ahead and kill her
instead of killing all of us. So, they separated her from us…before we were
rescued, they told us that if Leah would convert to Islam, they would free us,
so we tried as much as possible to convince her but she refused saying she
would never renounce her religion for fear of death.” We have no evidence of what transpired between
Michael and his killers. However, for us Christians, this death is a metaphor
for the fate of all Christians in Nigeria but especially northern Nigeria. For
us Christians, it would seem safe to say that we are all marked men and women
today. Yet, we must be ready to be washed in the blood of the lamb. The
testimony of the Dapchi girl above suggests that our country has a future, a
future based on the innocence of our youth who have seen beyond religion. Leah
Sharibu is a martyr for the faith and so is Michael. St Paul has already said
it well: We carry this treasure in vessels of clay so that all this surpassing
power may not be seen as ours, but as God’s. Trials of every sort come our way,
but we are not discouraged. We are left without answers but we do not despair,
persecuted but not abandoned, knocked down but not crushed. At any moment, we
carry in our person, the death of Jesus, so that in life, Jesus may also be
manifested in us (2 Cor. 4: 7-10). Finally, we praise and thank God that Pius,
Peter and Stephen are alive and will continue to bear earthly testimony of this
horror. May God help them to all heal. We join the family of Michael in their
act of forgiveness while calling on God give these killers their own road to
Damascus experience deep in the forests and highways. For now, we in Sokoto are
at peace and feel mightily honoured that we have been chosen for this task of
being called upon to walk the footsteps of the passion of Jesus Christ. We know
that the Lord’s burden is never heavy. We are humbled but not bowed. Although
we are only a little flock, we are pleased to offer from the little we have to
the Master. Like the owner of the donkey on which Jesus rode to Jerusalem, we
are asking no question because the Master has asked for Michael (Lk. 19:31). Like
the Galileans (Lk. 13:1), we surrender the blood of Michael to the vicious
Herods of today but we know we will one day rise to a new life.  The choice of our son Michael as a Simon of
Cyrene is a remarkable gift that we must embrace with both hands. We feel as if
our son has been chosen to represent us in the national team of martyrs.  Without fear, we will complete the journey he
started because his memory will give us strength. We know that Michael’s strength will inspire
an army of young people to follow in his steps. We will march on with the cross
of Christ entrusted to us, not in agony or pain, because our salvation lies in
your cross. We have no vengeance or bitterness in our hearts. We have no drop
of sorrow inside us. We are honoured that our son has been summoned to receive
the crown of martyrdom at the infancy of his journey to the priesthood. We are
grateful that even before he could ascend the earthly altar, Jesus the high
priest, called Him to stand by His angels. He was a priest by desire but he is
concelebrating the fullness of the priesthood beside His Master. He was lifted
up even before his hands could lift up the sacred chalice. May the Lord place
him beside His bosom and may he intercede for us. If his blood can bring
healing to our nation, then his murderers will never have the final say. May
God give him eternal peace. ––Matthew
Hassan Kukah, Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, presented this Homily 11th February
2020 at Good Shepherd Seminary, Kaduna, at the funeral of Michael Nnadi, who
was abducted at the seminary and later murdered by bandits after collecting a
ransom. 