 The Coronavirus epidemic could
damage global economic growth this year, the Managing Director of the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), Kristalina Georgieva, said yesterday. She was, however, optimistic
that a sharp and rapid economic rebound could follow. “There may be a cut that we
are still hoping would be in the 0.1-0.2 percentage space,” Georgieva  told the Global Women’s Forum in Dubai. She said the full impact of
the spreading disease that has already killed more than 1,600 people would
depend on how quickly it was contained. “I advise everybody not to
jump to premature conclusions. There is still a great deal of uncertainty. We
operate with scenarios, not yet with projections, ask me in 10 days,” Georgieva
said. In its January update to the
World Economic Outlook, the IMF lowered global economic growth forecast in 2020
by a 0.1 percentage point to 3.3 per cent, following a 2.9 per cent growth the
previous year, the lowest in a decade. Georgieva said it was “too
early” to assess the full impact of the epidemic but acknowledged that it had
already affected sectors such as tourism and transportation. “It is too early to say
because we don’t yet quite know what is the nature of this virus. We don’t know
how quickly China will be able to contain it. We don’t know whether it will
spread to the rest of the world,” she said. If the disease is “contained
rapidly, there can be a sharp drop and a very rapid rebound”, in what is known
as the V-shaped impact, she added. Compared to the impact of the
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2002, she said China’s economy then
made up just 8.0 per cent of the global economy. Now, that figure is 19 per
cent. She said the trade agreement
between the United States and China, the world’s first and second economies,
had reduced the disease’s impact on the global economy. But the world should be
concerned “about sluggish growth” impacted by uncertainty, said the IMF chief. “We are now stuck with low productivity growth, low
economic growth, low-interest rates and low inflation,” she told the Dubai
forum, also attended by US President Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka and former
British Prime Minister Theresa May.