 Ejiofor Alike A global research meeting was co-chaired by
a Nigerian expert to contribute to the local and global response to the new
coronavirus outbreak. The Director-General of the Nigeria Centre
for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, chaired the second day of a
high-level global meeting convened by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to
agree on the research priorities to contain the spread of novel coronavirus
(COVID-19). This high-level meeting held in the WHO
Headquarters, was convened by the Director General of the WHO, Dr. Tedros
Adhanom Ghebreyesus, and co-hosted in collaboration with GloPID-R, the Global
Research Collaboration for Infectious Disease Preparedness. The meeting brought together major research
funders and over 300 scientists and researchers from a large variety of
disciplines. At the meeting, the experts concluded that
much was still not known about this disease and how to control it. “Gaps and priorities were discussed and
agreed, including in areas such as how best to diagnose the disease, the
development of new treatment, ethical implications of the research,
regulations, the role of epidemiology and social sciences and ultimately how to
develop a vaccine to prevent the disease. “Particular emphasis was placed on the need
for any new technologies or approaches to be available to low- and middle-
income countries such as Nigeria, who have the least capacity and resources to
respond to a pandemic.” The experts also outlined mechanisms for
continuing scientific interactions and collaborations beyond the meeting, which
will be coordinated and facilitated by WHO. They worked with research funders to
determine how necessary resources can be mobilised so that critical research
can start immediately. The deliberations will form the basis of a
research and innovation roadmap charting all the research needed and this will
be used by researchers and funders to accelerate the research response. The meeting resolved that research to
contain an epidemic requires the collaboration of basic and social scientists
from different fields, affected communities and support and coordination by
governments and international organisations. It was also noted that Nigeria, the most
populous nation in Africa, has an important role to play in all aspects of the
response and the research needed. This will place the nation well in terms of
coping with any emerging threat as well as supporting the country’s neighbours. WHO Director-General, Dr. Tedros Adhanom
Ghebreyesus, said: “This outbreak is a test of solidarity — political,
financial and scientific. We need to come together to fight a common enemy that
does not respect borders, ensure that we have the resources necessary to bring
this outbreak to an end and bring our best science to the forefront to find
shared answers to shared problems. Research is an integral part of the outbreak
response.” “I appreciate the positive response of the
research community to join us at short notice and come up with concrete plans
and commitment to work together.” This week also saw the first case of the
dreaded Corona virus disease diagnosed in Egypt. The new coronavirus disease, which emerged
in Wuhan China and is spreading globally, is fortunately less fatal than SARS
but seems to be more easily transmitted. Nigeria’s response, led by the Federal
Ministry of Health and NCDC, has built on earlier work such as the Field
Epidemiology Training Programme, improvements in surveillance using a new
national system (SORMAS) and the successful response to the West African Ebola
outbreak. The devastating impact of previous
pandemics on lives and the economy of countries has highlighted the need for
better preparedness. While there is still yet to be a single
case of COVID-19 in Nigeria, the leadership demonstrated to date by the health
ministry and NCDC is the direction needed to prepare for future health
epidemics and needs replicating across the health sector.