A recent memo by the National Security Adviser, Major-General Babagana Monguno to President Muhammadu Buhari alleging that the Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari is illegally meddling in issues of national security, is the simplest indication of a house against itself, writes Shola Oyeyipo A or so many reasons, the letter by the National Security Adviser, Major-General Babagana Monguno (rtd), dated December 9, 2019, where he openly alleged ‘Disruption of the National Security Framework by Unwarranted Meddlesomeness’ against the person of the Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, called for serious concerns. First, there have been concerns from various quarters that President Muhammadu Buhari might not be fully in charge of affairs in the country and that much, his wife, Mrs. Aisha, had also alluded to when she raised the alarm that the ‘cabal’ had hijacked the government from her husband. It is also important to state that it was the former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, who first raised the alarm about a government within the government in 2016.
Thus, when Buhari told his ministers at inauguration in August 2019, that all requests for meetings with him should go through Kyari and that all Federal Executive Council (FEC) matters should be coordinated through the Secretary to the Government of the Federation,” Mr. Boss Mustapha, a lot of Nigerians further suspected that something was amiss. The president literally handed over government to these two, making them ‘Aso Rock power brokers.’ There are also those who are of the view that there is a crack within the presidency, which ripple effects might continue to encourage insecurity, because the issue between the NSA and Chief of Staff boils down to the management or mismanagement of the nation’s security architecture.
As a retired Army General, it is easy to understand where Monguno is coming from. He is adhering to known chain of command as stipulated in the military, so his leaked letter came as a direct reaction to directives contained in memos with references (A) SH/COS/46/2/1429 dated 13 September 2019 and (B) SH/COS/26/5/A/2609 dated 26 November 2019. According to him, coming as response to the request for presidential intervention to sustain internal security operations of the police within the shortest possible time, the contents of the two document were not in agreement with Mr. President’s verbal directives.
Hence, after scrutinising the document, Monguno said he sought clarification from President Buhari, whom he said “directed that reference B be disregarded by all parties as it was sent without his endorsement.”
Where this is true, it means presidency is being operated without the full knowledge of President Buhari, a dangerous dimension to leadership for that matter. His argument was that going by the established standard of passing directives from the President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, what happened was glaring breaches to that procedure.
He said apart from direct verbal directives from the president, written directives emanating from him would be conveyed with a copy of his manuscript directive or at minimum, bear his signature and that presidential directives to the heads of defence and security apparatus are usually conveyed through him as the NSA and chairman, Intelligence Community Committee, Joint Intelligence Board and General Security Appraisal Committee on behalf of the president and the supervising ministers of defence and security agencies. Therefore he said: “It should be noted that the Chief of Staff to the President does not direct security apparatus of the Federal Republic of Nigeria — his job as it relates to security stops at conveying Mr. President’s written directives.
“Similarly, you are reminded that the Chief of Staff to the President is not a presiding head of security, neither is he sworn to an oath of defending the country. “As such, unprofessional practices such as presiding over meetings with service chiefs and heads of security organisations as well as ambassadors and high commissioners to the exclusion of the NSA and/or supervising ministers are a violation of the Constitution and directly undermine the authority of Mr. President,” Monguno stated.
Perhaps, the strongest part of his reaction was where he alleged that such acts and continuous meddlesomeness by Kyari “have not only ruptured our security and defence efforts but have slowed down any meaningful gain that Mr. President has sought to achieve.” In his word for the service chiefs, Monguno noted that, “As professionals, you are aware that the security of the Federal Republic of Nigeria requires concerted and centralised effort taking into account internal, external and diplomatic factors. “It is therefore detrimental to our collective security that the Chief of Staff, who is a non-supervising minister holds meetings with diplomats, security chiefs and heads of agencies. “Pursuant to the foregoing, you are by this letter directed to desist from these illegal acts that serve nothing but the continuous undermining of our national security framework. Any breach of this directive will attract displeasure of Mr. President.” Obviously, the letter was written with a clear and precise content to Kyari to “steer clear of issues of national security; they are beyond your jurisdiction and you perpetuate unconstitutionality doing so.” But the concern is that this letter is capable of having different meanings to different people. First is President Buhari himself. Could it be that in ordering his ministers to go through Kyari to reach him, he had also subsumed the office of the NSA under the Chief of Staff? In such a case, Monguno’s letter will be considered an affront to the president himself, except otherwise stated by the Nigerian leader. Such was the case of a former Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Mr. Ibe Kachikwu, who also in a leaked letter to the president, alleged insubordination and other misdemeanors against Maikanti Baru, who was the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) at the time. He too appealed to the president to instruct the GMD to leave the NNPC to run as a proper institution and follow due process. President Buhari ended up returning Kachikwu as the group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation but instead, replaced him with Timipre Sylva, after the 2019 polls. Another worry being expressed in some quarters especially, within the presidency, is that considering the sensitivity of the letter as it relates to national security issues, it shouldn’t have been leaked to the press, and that like other ministers, who want to get things done, Monguno should have swallowed his pride and get the job done by working with Kyari, if that’s what is required to get results in securing lives and property. The task of securing the lives of Nigerians, who are daily suffering series of attacks from various mindless killer groups, should not be a blame game amongst aides of the President. It should be some concerted effort that would yield purposeful results and bring about lasting peace. There are as many opinions on this as there are many Nigerians but for some Twitter users it is still different strokes for different commentators.
Samuel Oladipo considered it a good omen – good confusion setting in among those in the corridor of power and who have not used the privilege to better the lives of the citizenry. “Disunity, disaffection, quarrel, distrust, wrangling, fighting, misunderstanding and evil that has come in-between the camp of the enemies of our nation will be sustained by the power of the Most High such that they will never become one again. Disarray will continue to be their bane.” For another user, who identified herself as Aisha, “Enough is enough. Abba Kyari is behaving as if he is the second president of Nigeria. In bygone years, we didn’t even know who our Chief of Staff were, because they were always in the background, but this one is power drunk and stinking rich. He is always in PMBs face. Why?” Mazi Festus asked the same question as Aisha. He said: “Who is the real de facto president of the Federal Republic of NIGERIA, Is it the service chiefs, Chief of staff, Abba Kyari, National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno or President Muhammadu Buhari? Who is the president of Nigeria? Answering the question, Jegede John said, “Last year, I said the real president of the country is Abba Kyari, who also doubles as the chairman of the cabal within the presidency. That’s why they try to undermine the Vice President too when the VP fired former DSS boss, Daura and also manipulating the president.” Surely, the last has not been heard of this matter and the questions will continue to be asked by Nigerians, who think there are more to this than meets the eyes.