 •Demands
reconstitution of panel to hear Ihedioha’s application Chuks Okocha in Abuja Ahead of today’s hearing of the application
by the sacked governor of Imo State, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, for the Supreme Court
to review its judgment on the 2019 governorship election, the Peoples
Democratic Party (PDP) has written to the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN),
Justice Tanko Ibrahim Muhammad, demanding his recusal along with six other
justices of the  court from the case. In a letter signed by the National Chairman
of the party, Prince Uche Secondus and National Secretary, Alhaji Umar Ibrahim
Tsauri, the main opposition party demanded that a new panel be set up to hear
Ihedioha’s application. Should the CJN agree to the request, the
Supreme Court, which presently has only 13 justices, will be short of personnel
to hear the case. Going by the principle of the Supreme
Court, reconstituting the panel will require seven justices of the apex court
to hear the case; one justice short of the six that would be left after seven
of their colleagues might have recused themselves from the case as being
demanded by the PDP. In the letter dated February 14, 2020, the
party said it feared “likelihood of bias” and “denial of right to fair
hearing.” The other justices the party asked to
recuse themselves along with Justice Muhammad are: Justice Nwah Sylvester
Ngwuta, Justice Olukayode Ariwola, Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, Justice Amina
Adamu Augie and  Justice Uwani Musa Abba
Aji. The party said the seven justices,
including  the CJN, should recuse
themselves from participating in hearing the application for setting aside
their earlier judgment in the above case, on grounds of likelihood of bias. PDP added that there are judicial
precedents obtained in other climes and Nigeria to back up its demands. “Further note that there are judicial
precedents in Nigeria, Great Britain and United States of America in support of
our request for the reconstitution of a different panel to handle the current
application before the court,” the party said. The Supreme Court, in a unanimous judgment
read by Justice Kekere-Ekun on January 14, 2020, had sacked Ihedioha as the
governor of Imo State and  directed the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to issue a certificate of
return to Senator Hope Uzodinma, candidate of the All Progressives Congress
(APC) to replace the PDP candidate. PDP said it had become  imperative that the CJN and the other
justices who served in the panel that sacked Ihedioha be replaced to ensure
that fairness and justice were not only done, but seen to have been done. “They should recuse themselves from
participating in hearing the application for setting aside their earlier
judgment in the above case on grounds of likelihood of bias, that is, fair
hearing,” the party said. According to the PDP, which had earlier
asked the seven justices to recuse themselves at a press conference, “as a
follow-up to our earlier call on all members of the panel to recuse themselves,
we have now sought to formalise that request or demand. “We hereby request that the seven persons
that heard the case earlier should recuse themselves from participating in the
consideration of this new application. We are not unmindful of the fact that a
litigant cannot dictate to the court the panel that should hear its case.
However, due to the extraordinary circumstances and the nature of this case, we
think that our request is a fair one that meets the justice of the case. “Consequently, we feel it as our
patriotic duty to hereby humbly request that your Lordship constitute a
different panel of this great Court (other than the one that delivered the
judgment) for the purpose of hearing this application. “If a judge had handled a kindred suit, a
related suit earlier, the law recognises that he may not hear a case arising
from the earlier one, as the likelihood of bias will be high,” PDP stated. The party cited the case of Dr. Nnamdi  Eriobuna Vs. Ikechukwu Obiorah, where the
late Justice Niki Tobi, JCA, as he then was, said: “Etymologically, bias means slant, personal
inclination or preference; a one-sided inclination. It also means a
pre-conceived opinion, a pre-disposition to decide a cause or an issue in a
certain way, which does not leave the mind perfectly open to conviction. Bias
creates a condition of mind which sways judgment and renders a judge unable to
exercise his functions impartially in a particular case. There is another
expression and it is likelihood of bias. “When a party in an action contends that
there is likelihood of bias, he is anticipating that the judge will be biased
in the judicial process. The act of bias is not formalised. The act of bias is
not concretised, but by the generality of the conduct of the judge, the
possibility of bias is overt. And the possibility is substantial. ….. The law
recognises quite a number of causes of bias. I should confine myself to only
one and that is the one relevant to this appeal. It is fore-knowledge or
previous knowledge of the case. This arises when the judge at one time or the
other, had done something in the matter to the extent that he cannot be said to
be a completely neutral person or stranger to it.” PDP told the CJN that Section 36(1) of the
Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, guarantees fair hearing to
every citizen or entity in the determination of his rights or obligation and
guarantees an independent and impartial body for such determination.