 • NCDC: 2 suspects tested negative
at our laboratory Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja The World Health Organization (WHO) has selected Nigeria
to lead the rest of Africa in capacity training on surveillance and treatment
of the Coronavirus. Speaking
at a weekly press briefing on the state of affairs on the fight against
Coronavirus, the Director General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control
(NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu said that the country have been asigned a leading
role in the efforts to keep Coronavirus at bay in Africa. “On
behalf of Africa Centre for Disease Control, Nigeria has been asked to lead in
the training on the infection detection and control for the continent,” he
said. Ihekweazu
said there will be a training programme beginning from January 20 in Nigeria on
response plans with other African countries in attendance. Speaking
on efforts to keep Nigeria safe from Coronavirus infection the Minister of
Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire said the federal government is taking the matter
very seriously and has provided funds needed for preventive measures. He
said that the country has five specialist reference laboratories where  suspected cases of Coronavirus can be
handled, adding that  effort is currently
on to identify and create a network of suitably equipped laboratories across
the country that will ensure quick response to disease emergencies. Ehanire
also spoke of ongoing research efforts aimed at producing vaccines against
Lassa fever and Coronavirus. He
said that Nigeria scientists are not left out of the research endeavor. While
reassuring Nigerians on the state of things, Chikwe said: “We are working
in synergy with other African countries and we are barely confident that we
don’t have a Coronavirus in the country at present and if we do, we know well
what to do to respond to it”. 
Chikwe who was asked by the minister to respond to questions posed by
journalists during the briefing, said that out of 30 calls for investigation so
far received by the centre, “two met the criteria for investigation and
were tested but found negative while two cases are still being examined. ”
We have given out 24- hour free helplines for people to call us on any suspended
incidence and so far we have received over 30 call for investigation and out of
these number, two have been investigated and found negative, while two cases
are undergoing examination, ” he said He
said that unlike other illnesses that patients are advised to visit the
hospital, NCDC team usually responds quuckly to any call for suspected cases of
Coronavirus by visiting the person so that it does not escalate. “Once
we receive any call, our team moves immediately to see the patient at his
house,” he said Explaining
why the authorities have not considered forcefully quarantining people coming
into Nigeria, Ihekweazu said the government is being careful not to be seen as
over-reacting. He
said the decision taken about self isolation was very well thought out measures
by government bearing in mind that we also have many disease outbreaks in the
country. “Remember
that  Nigeria also travel a lot across
the world, what will happen if other countries start quarantining Nigerians
because there is a Lassa fever outbreak for instance, it will cause us
problems. So as much as we want to control this global public health threat, we
also have to be very measured in our response,” he said. The
NCDC DG said that government has been issuing health advisory to citizens
including travel advice which also urges members of the public to make reports
on suspected incidence of Coronavirus. Regarding
research efforts aimed at developing preventive vaccines for the virus ailment,
Chikwe said that there was a meeting held recently in Geneva, Switzerland to
try to work out funding plans for a global 
research for medical solutions against Coronavirus.