 The high fatality rate regarding cancer in Nigeria was a
subject of discussion at an oncology summit in Lagos. Addressing the dearth in
quality equipment is the topmost solution, writes Ugo
Aliogo Last week in Lagos, stakeholders in Nigeria’s health sector met in Lagos to discuss the state of cancer treatment in Nigeria and how best to improve survival rates going forward. Tagged the Varian Oncology Summit,
it was held at the instance of Varian Medical Systems in conjunction with TANIT
Medical Engineering. The summit was an opportunity for
Varian to introduce the latest developments in cancer care to health
practitioners and also for stakeholders across the value chain to discuss and
develop possible approaches to efficiently deploy quality treatment across
Nigeria. Varian is the world leader in
radiation oncology solutions encompassing hardware and software, while TANIT is
its local partner in Nigeria helping to interface with local practitioners and
managing projects. Chief among these projects is the
Public Private Partnership between the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority
(NSIA), Varian and the Lagos University Teaching Hospital that birthed the
cancer building art LUTH. The cancer centre at LUTH is equipped by Varian. One of the recurring themes during
the summit which was held at the Eko Hotel and Suites is the need for more
medical linear accelerators (LINAC) if Nigeria is to contain the rising cases
of cancer in the country. Speaking with journalists just
before the summit commenced in earnest, the Regional Sales Manager West and
East Africa for Varian, Ansu Dukuray, said his organization is focusing on
Nigeria because of the death rate. “we want to bring the right attention to
cancer in Nigeria because so many people are dying of cancer every day.” The statistics show that 100,000
people are diagnosed with cancer yearly in Nigeria with an alarming 80,000
succumbing to the disease. It was agreed that a major reason
is lack of treatment due to a dearth of medical equipment. According to the
experts, while 200 LINAC machines are needed for a country of Nigeria’s
population, only six are available, with three of them operated by Varian at
LUTH. A LINAC is the device most commonly used for
external beam radiation treatments for patients with cancer. It delivers
high-energy x-rays or electrons to the region of the patient’s tumor. “In Nigeria, today, we need 200
LINACS to adequately address the treatment of cancer. According to the World
Health Organisation (WHO), you need one LINAC per one million people.  We are engaging the public and private sector
to beef up the capacity across the country,” Dukuray said on the sidelines of
the summit. Speaking on the progress made at
the cancer centre in LUTH he continued, “Today patients are treated there. That
was not the case before now. “When you look at healthcare
projects in the past, you have a lot of white elephant projects where equipment
are acquired and they are kept there without any maintenance contract so they
work for the first six months after which the equipment is not doing anything
for the patient.” He further noted that the
organization is engaging locally, adding that in partnership with TANIT, “we
have trained engineers in Nigeria to start operating the equipment at LUTH. So
what it means is that we don’t have to wait for engineers to come from the US
to operate the facility.” He continued that Varian has the
responsibility to make sure the machines work for the next 10 years.  “We are changing the narrative. LUTH is a
start.” Dukaray debunked the narrative
that LINACs don’t work in Africa as he said that no LINAC in LUTH has ever
stopped working. “They are 95 to 98 per cent of the
time in treatment of patients,” he said, this despite the electricity
challenges in the country. “The technology is second to none
anywhere in the world. The only reason anyone will decide to travel out (for
treatment) is because of the backlog (of patients) because we don’t have enough
equipment.” He also revealed that Varian is
building capacity in Nigeria with a training centre. “We are engaging public
and private partners to help build capacity. We feel Nigeria is very important.
The training centre will train Nigerians and other countries can come to
Nigeria to build capacity. We are building the pillars.” In his remarks, the CEO of TANIT,
Anthony Nader, said the organisation has helped shape the project in LUTH from
feasibility to business planning and construction. Nader revealed that the cancer
building at LUTH was funded by the NSIA while the equipment was funded by
Varian. “The cancer centre project in LUTH
is a Public Private Partnership (PPP) initiative project done in collaboration
with LUTH and the NSIA. The role of TANIT was the execution of the project. We
are glad to leverage on this project. The project was done and delivered in
record time.” TANIT has established a training
centre at LUTH to train Nigerians on the using the latest equipment available. “We hope to use the experience and
knowledge gained to expand to other hospitals across Nigeria and ensure that we
have the same success stories because the country needs much more of these
initiatives.” Speaking during the summit,
Consultant Clinical Oncologist at LUTH, Prof. Francis Durosinmi-Etti said
there’s still a lot to do to catch up with the rest of the world.
Durosinmi-Etti also noted that the increase in cancer cases could be a result
of people becoming more aware of the disease. He continued that the prevalence
of the disease could be attributed to a number of factors included the
environment being increasingly polluted. “The amount of fumes we have is enough
to cause cancer.” A poor diet and excessive alcohol are other risk factors he
said. Nigeria
may seem to be lagging behind in the fight against cancer but with projects
like the cancer center in LUTH, long-overdue succor is coming the way of
patients, albeit slowly.