2023: Neck-and-neck Battle MEDIA GAFFES By  Ebere Wabara PAGE 2 BUSINESSDAY of February 5 welcomes us today with this minor headline blunder: “Chi lauded for launching Hollandia Lactose Free (Lactose-free) Milk” “1 die (dies), 5 injured as police, criminals exchange gunfire in
Anambra” (News around the city, February 5) Politics & Power of February 5 comes up next with this fault: “Or is
the movement likely to come through this and become stronger like it has (had)
always done in the past?” “Minimum wage: Labour issues 14 days (14-day or 14 days’) ultimatum in
Kwara” (AREWA NEWS, February 5) “Two killed, houses razed,
hundreds displaced as Tivs (Tiv), Jukuns (Jukun) restart fight” (THISDAY Front
Page Headline, February 8) “House probes Agric Ministry over $1bn donor assisted (donor-assisted)
agricultural project funds” “Amotekun: Recruit non-Yorubas (non-Yoruba) experienced in security
outfit, PDP chieftain suggests” “FG task (tasks) youths to drive agricultural revolution” “Ozekhome receives pan African (pan-African) award for defending
Nigeria’s democracy” “Use $321m Abacha loot to develop oil producing (oil-producing)
communities, activist begs Buhari” “Happy birthday to a quintessential business mogul, philanthropist extraordinary
(extraordinaire)….” “Community policing amidst (amid) regional security outfits” “No armed robbery, no banditry, no tribal (ethnic) conflicts….” What is
the difference between ‘armed robbery’ and ‘banditry’? “MAN express (expresses) fear over Nigeria’s readiness for AFCFTA
opportunities” “Delta community raises the alarm over herdsmen (herdsmen’s) siege” “The unprecedented onslaught against PDP faithfuls and other citizens….”
‘Faithful’ is uncountable. “…CJN yesterday read a riot act to judicial officers nationwide,
threatening to dismiss anyone caught perverting justice.” Fixed expression:
read the Riot Act. “Buhari, APC plot take over of S/East” Noun: takeover (which applies
here); phrasal verb: take over. “APC, PDP in neck-to-neck battle” Get it right: neck-and-neck battle. “Tomplo Boys lay siege on Shomolu, Bariga” This way: lay siege to
Shomolu, Bariga “JTF arrests four over (for) illegal bunkering in Warri” (DAILY
INDEPENDENT Headline, January 21) “…Africa’s richest man beseiged” Spell-check: besieged. Nigerian Tribune of January 23 did not confirm its self-adulation: “Under
him, the body which comprised of eight countries grew to become 49.” The pride
of Lagos-Ibadan press: expunge ‘of’ from the extract. “It seems the bickering between the two unions is deepening.” (DAILY
TRUST, January 23) We can conveniently do without ‘two’ in this excerpt because
of its irrelevance. “They are little aware that our great men of yesteryears were able to
achieve.…” (Leadership, January 23) What has happened to the reputation of
excellence? ‘Yesteryear’, just like ‘heyday’, is uncountable. ”Bandits kill two police, injure three others in Lagos” One of these:
policemen, police officers, constables or cops; not just ‘police’. Vanguard of January 23 bungled two expressions: “They would rather kill
themselves over who is superior….” Friends of the Niger Delta: They would
rather kill one another.  It is not yet a
suicidal stuff. “But the governor has stuck to his gun, insisting that his action is
perfectly constitutional.” (THISDAY, January 23) Stuck to his guns (not gun) “Well, dear honourables….” (Source: as above) Get it right: dear
honourable members or dear lawmakers (legislators). ‘Honourables’ is Nigerian
English not yet listed in Oxford English Dictionary as at January 31, 2020. “Delegates in free for all fight” (Sunday Vanguard, January 26) Towards a
better weekly: free-for-all (take note of the hyphenation and the elimination
of ‘fight’ which is otiose). “The faithful performed creditably well….” (THE NATION, January 21) No
lip-service (not eye-service, as most Nigerians misinform): delete ‘well’
because of its redundancy here. So, the faithful performed creditably. “Why would the christians (Christians, please) distrupt a sober act of
paying tribute?” (Daily Trust, February 22) Spell-check: disrupt. Nigerian Tribune of February 23 raised two questions:”…it is one
agitation or the other (another: several agitations) against the present status
quo” ‘Present status quo’ leaves a sour taste. “That a man charged for (with) mother (father) of all crimes set free
without due process.” “The role played by people like…are (is) subject to thorough
investigation.” (Business World, January 21) “The police is (are) on red alert.” (DAILY SUN, January 23) Always
recollect that they (policemen) are not your friends and that bail is not free,
contrary to what the authorities declare! “But there he was, Clinton, the most powerful head of government in the
world, has (had) to sweat it out before lawyers that he appointed.” (Daily
Independent, January 23) “…we are being asked to bring our plates and we shall be duely (duly)
served.” “Libyan rebellion ignore peace offers” (THE PUNCH, January 23) No
senility: Libyan rebels….” “Essentially, those who spoke against it did so in (on) three main
grounds” (THE GUARDIAN, January 23) ‘WAEC disturbed over education standard” (Nigerian Tribune, January 23)
Nigeria’s most informative newspaper: educational standard. “Influx of obsolete equipment worry (worries) radiographers” (THE
GUARDIAN, January 23) Please, note that ‘reopen’ does not admit hyphenation (re-open). “It is the duty of the police to conduct investigations into the sort of
killings that wasted some of its (their) men in Jos, the troubled capital of
Plateau State, and fish out the culprits.” (THE GUARDIAN, January 23) “Since AIDS run (runs) a long course atimes (at times) up to 5-10 years
before it kills its victim….” (DAILY INDEPENDENT, January 23) “Seeing this non-challant attitude as a reflection of a people lacking in
unity and cohesion….” Spell-check: nonchalant. “…others who thought they were immuned to injustice were arrested.” No
round-up: just immune. ”At the outskirts of the town, a large signpost….” Get it right: on the
outskirts. “…the instruments of instruction and education of the policy have been
entrenched within the polity.” The road to Aso Rock: entrench in (not within). “Within the last decade, the Mugabe government was involved in series (a
series) of political and financial scandals.” “Since he was voted out of office in 1980, Mr. Carter has visited Nigeria
several times, usually in pursuit of one humanitarian mission or the other.”
Certainly, the man had pursued several missions on these shores.  So, the proper context should be: one
humanitarian mission or another (multiple). The excerpt has just a dual
function, which is wrong. “At the start, when the politicians were told to form political
associations, all manners of associations, with different ideological orientations
and tendencies, sprouted like mushrooms.” Stock expression: all manner of
associations. For Isaac Aluko-Olokun May the soul of Ambassador Isaac Agboola Aluko-Olokun, an ardent
Wordsworth (Media Gaffes) subscriber, continue to rest in peace. We are
celebrating who and what you were: a gentleman, a patriot and a universal
citizen. “Good men must die, but death cannot kill their names.” From time to
time, I remember our first-and-last meeting in the office of the editor of
Daily Times of yore in its heyday, Barrister Ndu Ughamadu, now of the NNPC.