Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has assured Christians in the country that the federal government is doing a lot to sort out mounting security challenges. Osinbajo gave the assurance yesterday when he received, on a courtesy visit to the Presidential Villa, clergymen from the Northern part of Nigeria under the auspices of the Arewa Pastors Forum for Peace. The Vice President, according to a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Laolu Akande, said among the measures being taken to sort out the challenges include plans to recruit more troops and officers to beef up the personnel of security agencies. Speaking on how the federal government is managing the security concerns across the country, the vice president assured the pastors “we are doing everything that needs to be done. “We are handling security well, and as you know, including military deployment in diverse fields, like the Boko Haram in the North-east. “In fact, we have to now recruit more into the army, and much faster than we ever did because we need men on the ground; resources also – to buy more arms, to buy more platforms,” the Vice President said. Osinbajo, describing how serious the Buhari administration considers the task, added: “At the last meeting of the National Security Council that was held on Thursday, we had discussions on how to beef up the military’s platforms. How do we beef up the numbers? How do we recruit more men and women into the army? How do we collaborate more with local vigilante, the Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) and all that. “So, there is a lot going on in terms of trying to beef up security. The security situation is one that is very challenging. We are also looking at aspects of surveillance – how we can do more aerial surveillance using drones and electronic devices to improve surveillance,” the Vice President noted. He assured the clergymen that the Federal Government is also committed to finding lasting solutions to the perennial crisis in communities in the North and other parts of the country, including the ones bothering on religious prejudices. He urged the group as ‘Men of God,” to also come up with ideas and their thoughts on how to find lasting peace.