 John Shiklam in Kaduna and Michael Olugbode
in Maiduguri The Emir of Kano,  Alhaji Muhammadu Sanusi II, yesterday
expressed concern about the rising waves of poverty, insecurity and illiteracy
in the North. The emir, 
at the 60th birthday celebration of the Kaduna State Governor, Mallam
Nasir el-Rufai, in Kaduna, said no Northern leaders could afford to be happy in
the midst of the socio-economic problems facing the region. He spoke just as the humanitarian crisis
occasioned by the insurgency in the North-east has forced some 1,000 residents
of Kayamla in Borno State out of their homes to be sleeping on Maiduguri
streets for fear of being attacked by Boko Haram. Moved by their plight, the Borno State
Government yesterday resettled the internally displaced people,  who were rejected at IDP camps, to temporary
accommodation. Sanusi warned that the region cannot
continue to rely on quota system and federal character to get jobs for its
children at the expense of the other parts of the country, which are busy turning
out graduates. He said the region would destroy itself if
it did not change its current status and address the challenges of poverty,
millions of out-of-school children, malnutrition, drug problem and Boko Haram
insurgency. “When we talk about birthday, we talk about
happiness. Just last week, someone asked me, ‘are you happy?’ “And I said, ‘I am not’. And the person was
surprised. Nobody who is a leader in Northern Nigeria today can afford to be
happy. You cannot be happy about 87 per cent of poverty in Nigeria being in the
north. “You can’t be happy with millions of
Northern children out of school. You can’t be happy with nine states in the
North contributing almost 50 per cent of the entire malnutrition burden in the
country. “You can’t be happy with the drug problem,
you can’t be happy with the Boko Haram problem. You can’t be happy with
political thuggery. You can’t be happy with all the issues; the Almajiri
problem that we have. “So, we wish Nasir a happy birthday, but we
do not want him to be happy as a leader because you are happy when you think
you have reached a state of delivering and taking your people to where you want
them to be.” The emir said because of the condition of
the North, “it is almost correct now to say that if you are seen as normal; if
you are a governor in the North or a leader in the North, and you are seen as
normal in the sense that you continue to do what your predecessors have been
doing; doing the same thing, which has been normalised, then, there is
something wrong with you. You are part of the problem.” According to him, “the real change in the
North will come from those who are considered mad people because you look
around and say if this is the way we have been doing things, and this is where
we have ended up, maybe we need to do things differently.” He said if the government had been
populated with middle-aged men, there was need to try younger people and try
women. “If we have spent our money and time on
physical structures, may be we need to invest more in education of our
children. “May be we need to invest more in
nutrition. May be we need to invest more in primary healthcare” he stated. He commended el-Rufai’s reforms in the
education sector, noting that what the governor is doing in the sector is what
will save the North. “If you look at what Nasir is doing in
Kaduna, with 40 per cent of his budget in education, that is the only thing
that is going to save the North. I know that when we say these things, they
don’t go down well. “We have been saying this for 20 to 30
years. “If the North does not change, the North
will destroy itself. The country is moving on. quota system that everybody
talks about must have a sunset clause. “The reason that people like Nasir stand up
and they are nationalists is that they don’t have any sense of inadequacy. “You don’t need to rise on being from
Kaduna State or being from the North or being a Muslim to get a job; you come
with your credentials; you go with your competence; you can compete with any
Nigerian from anywhere. “And believe me, if we don’t listen, there
would be a day when there would be a constitutional amendment that addresses
these issues of quota system and federal character. “The
rest of the country cannot be investing, educating its children, producing
graduates and then they watch us, they can’t get jobs because they come from
the wrong states when we have not invested in the future of our own children. “So, as we celebrate Nasir at 60, we need
to celebrate him as a public officer who is addressing the core problems of his
constituency. “Is it education? Is it girl child
education? Is it  women’s right? Is it
child begging? Is it parental irresponsibility, demographic growth? Is it
managing a multi-cultural, multi-ethnic and multi-religious society and bringing
them into one community where they are all citizens?  He has done a lot that we can learn from,” he
said. He commended the governor for developing
himself over the years as a surveyor, a lawyer,
noting that the governor has Masters degrees with over 80 certificates from
Harvard university. He said: “So, I am proud to count Nasir as
one of my friends. I usually say I have to keep him as a friend because he is
the only person in Nigeria beside whom I am considered a moderate. “People usually go to him and say talk to
your friend, the emir,  or your friend
Sanusi;  same way people tell me, talk to
your friend Nasir. “Even two days ago, someone sent me to him
with two messages. I delivered the first one, which I thought was nice and
friendly, but when I saw his reaction, you did not deliver the second one. I am
waiting for the right time to deliver it. “It is important to realise that the
positions we hold are transient and they do not define us. “Anybody can be called a governor; anybody
can be called an emir, a commissioner or a minister, but at the end of the day,
you should know that God had given you a chance to do something, to leave a
mark and impact people’s lives. “When he had issues with teachers in Kaduna
State, some of his friends came to me to advise him because he was in his first
term. That he should not take such risks, he can lose election.  I said, okay I will advise him, but I knew he
was not going to listen to that advice. So, I told him what people were
thinking. He said your highness, if the people of Kaduna want to vote me out
because I want good education for their children, let them do it. “And I agreed
with him. After winning an election, you should be governing, you should not be
in a campaign mode for four years. “You were elected to serve. If people
appreciate it and vote for you, fine; if they don’t, you have done your bit.” 1,000
Displaced Women, Children Sleep on Maiduguri Streets Meanwhile, residents of Kayamla in Borno
State have taken to sleeping on Maiduguri streets for fear of being attacked by
Boko Haram. The people, numbering about 1,000 from
about 300 households, have been sleeping on the streets because they were
turned back at the internally displaced persons (IDPs) camps on arrival about
two weeks ago. Kayamla is in Konduga Local Government Area
(LGA) of troubled Borno State and about 20 kilometres from the state capital,
Maiduguri. The people who were beside the NYSC IDPs
camp in the centre of Maiduguri, said they had to flee to Maiduguri when
villages around them were attacked and they felt they might be raided by Boko
Haram. They said they tried to get admitted into
some IDPs camps in Maiduguri but they were turned back and they subsequently
decided to sleep on the streets. Speaking to THISDAY, the women said their husbands
sent them into Maiduguri to seek refuge while they stayed back in Kayamla. One of the women, Maimunat Abba,  said: “We have been staying here for about
two weeks now; we have no choice but to sleep on the streets since we were
turned back from the camps. “Even this camp (NYSC IDPs camp) told us
that they do not have room for us and we decided to stay on the road. We have
been sleeping in the cold since then.” She added that they decided to flee into
Maiduguri when it was becoming apparent that their village might be attacked
like others around them, which have been attacked and deserted. They were subsequently taken off the
streets to the Stadium IDPs camp by the Borno State Emergency Management Agency
(BOSEMA) yesterday afternoon. They were equally given supply of relief
materials by the North East Development Commission. Speaking to journalists, the Chairperson of
BOSEMA, Hajiya Yabawa Kolo, said the state government got to know of their
predicaments yesterday and immediately arranged accommodation for them at the
Stadium IDPs camp. She stated that they were about 300
households and numbered over 1,000.