 Chuks Okocha and Omololu Ogunmade in Abuja An alleged plan to stage public protests
tomorrow on the state of insecurity in the country has drawn a swift
condemnation from the presidency. The protest is also said to be aimed against
the continued retention of service chiefs by President Muhammadu Buhari. This
is causing concerns about the politicisation of the military and command
appointments, with the president’s spokesman accusing the main opposition
Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of sponsoring the march. Senior Special Assistant to the President
on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, claimed in a statement yesterday
that the Presidency received reports that the opposition had hired 2,000 men
and women to embarrass the Buhari government through street protests on Monday,
February 17. But PDP fired back last night, saying the
government should face its self-inflicted ordeal. It advised the administration
to address the collective concerns of Nigerians over its poor handling of
security issues, instead of seeking to blackmail the opposition and the media. However, contending that the protests were
meant to mislead and incite the public against the service chiefs, Shehu said
PDP had planned a repeat of its recent protest march against the government and
the Supreme Court at foreign embassies. He said the plan was to create the
impression that Nigerians supported the idea that the opposition sought to
promote. The statement read, “The Presidency wishes
to caution a section of the political class against misleading the public and
inciting protests against the heads of military institutions. This has become
necessary in view of received reports that about 2, 000 men and women have been
hired to demonstrate against Nigeria’s service chiefs on Monday. “This imminent gathering is the latest in a
series of demonstrations orchestrated by the opposition to embarrass the
government of President Muhammadu Buhari. As part of this overall scheme, the
Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), with its belligerent politics, has been
marching from one embassy to the other in protest against the Buhari
administration and the nation’s highest court of justice, the Supreme Court. “They are keen to give the impression
that Nigerians are in support of them as they take to the streets, and they
will go to any length to promote this false narrative.” He also alleged that the booing of the
president in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, on Wednesday by residents,
when Buhari made a stopover in the city to commiserate with the government and
people of the state over the killing of 30 travellers in Auno, near Maiduguri,
was part of the agenda. Shehu alleged that those who booed Buhari
in the town on Wednesday were hired by members of the opposition, whom he
accused of promoting the news with the intention of embarrassing the president. He further alleged that some politicians,
who had benefitted from Boko Haram insurgency were mobilising people
financially to be part of the protests. The statement said regarding the protest,
“The recent incident in Maiduguri, Borno State, where an overwhelmingly
cheering crowd gathered to welcome President Buhari, while a handful were
recorded booing him, is a part of this elaborate scheme. It is misleading, as
some analysts have tried to do, to read this as verdict against President
Buhari, who emerged winner with 94 per cent of the votes cast in the
presidential election in the state in February last year. “This was clearly a hired few, but the
news was promoted by the opposition, who had, of course, positioned themselves
to record the booing – all just to embarrass the President. We urge the media
to remain unbiased and discerning in their reporting, instead of becoming
unwitting tools in the hands of the opposition. “A group of politicians and
beneficiaries of the Boko Haram insurgency are right now paying for people to
join their planned protest against our country’s service chiefs, and they will
no doubt seek the media’s collaboration on this as usual. “But there is news and there is
promoted content – two very different things – one of which should never make
the headlines as these recent fake protests have done.” But PDP warned the Presidency to desist
from blackmailing the opposition and the media. It said threats and allegations
by the Buhari government that the opposition was behind the looming protest
were derisory, self-indicting, diversionary, and showed the confusion that
pervaded the Buhari Presidency in the face of discontentment by Nigerians. A statement by National Publicity Secretary
of PDP Kola Ologbondiyan said the Buhari Presidency was only trying to divert
attention by blackmailing the media and opposition. It said the government had
lost the capacity to face Nigerians because of its failure to deal with those
behind acts of insurgency, terrorism, banditry, kidnapping, and escalated violence
under its watch. PDP stated, “It is clear to all,
including even the Buhari Presidency, that Nigerians, across board, have been
in protest against the Buhari-led APC administration and needed nobody to
mobilise them to publicly exercise their constitutionally guaranteed rights any
day to register their discontentment against a failed administration that has
continued to live on propaganda, excuses and denials.” The opposition party reiterated its demand
that the security high command should be rejigged to inject new blood that
would help to effectively tackle the security challenges. Many, including the
two chambers of the National Assembly, have canvassed this position. PDP said, “Accusing the opposition and
threatening the media are, therefore, diversionary and apparently aimed to
validate alleged plots by agents of governments to clamp down on innocent
Nigerians, the media, and members of the civil society to suppress and foist a
siege mentality on Nigerians.” The party said the accusation was part of a
ploy by the Buhari Presidency to intimidate PDP into abandoning its demand that
the Buhari administration should be alive to its responsibility of securing the
country or step aside for more competent hands. “Our party holds that instead of
resorting to fabrications, blackmail and threats, a responsive and concerned
administration should rather listen to the people, stop its blackmail,
propaganda, denials and excuses; take urgent steps to rejig its security
architecture and end the escalated bloodletting under its watch,” PDP
maintained.