 •Says president didn’t accuse Borno
residents of colluding with Boko Haram Omololu Ogunmade in Abuja The presidency yesterday asked Nigerians to
ignore “fake news” circulating on the social media that President
Muhammadu Buhari had concluded plans to embark on foreign trips to the United
Kingdom, Saudi Arabia and Austria respectively. It also denied reports that Buhari accused
residents of Borno State of colluding with Boko Haram. The Special Adviser to the President on
Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, in a statement, described the claim as
fake news and concocted information. He said the purveyors of the fake news
claimed that Buhari would first travel to the UK for 20 days after which he
would proceed to Saudi Arabia and later to Austria. Adesina who advised Nigerians to desist
from further sharing the false information on social media, said members of the
president’s family, ministers, the military and some government officials had
also been victims of the alleged falsehood. The statement read: “Purveyors of fake
and concocted information are currently on overdrive, and Nigerians are urged
to be careful what they consume as news, and also share with others,
particularly from the social media. “An unfounded information has been
making the rounds that President Muhammadu Buhari is billed to travel to the
United Kingdom for 20 days and from there proceed to Saudi Arabia and then
Austria. “Fake. It is nothing but falsehood from mischievous minds. “Members of the first family,
ministers, top government officials, the military, and other key institutions,
are equally objects of this orchestrated falsehood, coming from enemies of
national cohesion. “We urge Nigerians to be
discriminatory about what they accept as credible information and restrain
themselves from sharing what they have not authenticated as genuine. That is
how we can all collectively beat the malevolent minds at their pernicious
games.” Buhari 
last week returned to the country from a trip to Ethiopia where he
attended the African Union (AU) summit and flew directly to Maiduguri, the
capital of Borno State, on a condolence visit over the recent killings in the
state. About 30 travellers were killed in attacks
on Auno, a location just 25 kilometres to Maiduguri, last week. Buhari had last month returned to Nigeria
from the UK-Africa Investment Summit 2020, which held in London from January
17. During the trip, the president met with
British Prime Minister, Mr. Boris Johnson, and briefed him about developments
in Nigeria. He told Johnson about the efforts of his
administration in the agricultural sector, saying it has led almost to
self-sufficiency in rice and other grains production. According to him, Nigeria has saved
billions of naira in foreign exchange and the efforts are now deployed in other
areas of development. On the war against insurgency, Buhari had
said things were a lot better, stressing that the Nigerian government is making
efforts to disabuse the minds of the people on the true philosophy of Boko
Haram. Meanwhile, the Presidency has also denied
that the president accused residents of Borno State of colluding with Boko
Haram. Presidential spokesman, Mallam Garuba
Shehu, said this yesterday on NTA’s ‘Good Morning Nigeria’ programme. Buhari had at a sympathy visit to Maiduguri
last week stated, “Boko Haram or whatever they are cannot come to Maiduguri or
its environs without the local leadership knowing, the local leadership is in
charge of security in their own respective areas. But Shehu said the president’s words were
misrepresented, adding that he also received a backlash on the social media
because of the comment. The president’s spokesman said: “I am happy
that Isa (Gusau) raised the issue. When the president left Maiduguri, he
stressed the need for more intelligence and more support for security and we
received a backlash on the social media that the president had raised questions
about the commitment of the people of Borno in the war against insurgency. “Never would the president have said such a
thing. But as I just said, quality intelligence is a condition sine qua non for
the success of any war.” The Special Adviser to the Borno State
Governor on Public Relations and Strategy, Mr. Isa Gusau, who was also on the
same programme with Shehu, faulted the allegations by the president that Boko
Haram was succeeding due to the collaboration of residents. South-west
States to Hold Public Hearings on Amotekun
Bill Barring any unforeseen circumstances, the
Houses of Assembly in the six states of the South-west will hold separate
public hearings on a bill for the establishment of a joint security outfit for
the region, Operation Amotekun. The public hearings, it was gathered, was
fixed for February 24 at a meeting of the Speakers of the Houses of Assembly of
the six states. According to an advertorial signed by the
Chairman of the Conference of Speakers of South-West State Legislatures, Hon.
Bamidele Oleyelogun, said, “After an exhaustive deliberation, the conference
resolved that, as a matter of urgency, all the State Houses of Assembly should
commence action on the process of passage of the (Amotekun) bill into law. “The conference, also in this regard,
mandated all the State Houses of Assembly to simultaneously hold public
hearings on the bill in their respective states on Monday, 24th February 2020. “The Conference of Speakers of South-West
Legislatures urges all the people of the South-West to attend and make
meaningful contributions to the bill that regulates the protection of lives and
property in our states.” The advertorial added that after the public
hearings, the six speakers would reconvene and meet with Attorneys General from
the states “to address all conflicting areas and to review the contents of the
reports generated at the public hearing for harmonisation into the proposed
law”. While the conference of the South-West
speakers said a public hearing on the proposed law would hold on Monday, the
status of the bill differed in the six South-West states. The Ekiti State House of Assembly had
passed the bill on Friday, while the Osun State House of Assembly yesterday
commenced work on the Amotekun bill. The lawmakers later received the bill from
Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and it scaled the first reading. Also, the Ondo State House of Assembly said
yesterday that it was ready to start legislative process on the passing of the
bill known as the Ondo State Security Bill. The lawmakers had last Wednesday received
the bill from the State Executive Council. However, the lawmakers are currently on
recess but the Director of Information Service of the Assembly, Mr.  Sehinde Falokun, has hinted that the
lawmakers would cut short their holiday and reconvene today (Tuesday) to work
on the bill. While the Oyo State House of Assembly will
hold public hearing tomorrow, the Ogun State House of Assembly has fixed today
(Tuesday) for the commencement of the hearing of the bill. The Lagos State House of Assembly is on
recess and would resume in March.