  Femi Ogbonnikan writes
on the recent Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Ogun State
Government and Organized Labour over the willingness of the government to pay
N30,500 as new minimum wage he Ogun State
Government has joined the states that have agreed to pay the mandatory minimum
wage as demanded by the Organized Labour. The administration of Prince Dapo
Abiodun has even gone a step further. It surpassed the minimum N30,000 wage  by N500. With this, the state government has
agreed to pay its workforce N30,500 a month as minimum wage. This is
cheerful news, being a rare feat that is unprecedented in the annals of the
state by any government. It is a clear affirmation that the present administration,
led by Prince Abiodun places premium on improving the living conditions of its
workforce. Wednesday,
February 5, 2020, was the day of reckoning when the Organized Labour and the
Ogun State government jointly reached a consensus for the payment of the new
minimum wage, with effect from January 1, 2020. In a Memorandum
of Understanding (MoU) signed by the representatives of the Organized Labour,
comprising the Joint Negotiating Council (JNC), Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC)
and the Trade Union Congress (TUC), and the Head of Service (HoS), Mrs Mope
Chokor, who led the state government delegation, all the parties agreed on the
Consequential Adjustment of 27 per cent for Grade Levels 07 and 08 (20%), Grade
Level 09 (19%), Grade Levels 10 to 14 (15%) and Grade Levels 15 to 17 (14%). The HoS
expressed appreciation to the Organized Labour for their support and
understanding during the lengthy periods of negotiations. She commended the
governor for the good gesture and exemplary leadership in improving the lots of
the state workforce, a savoury development, which, according to her, would spur
on the workers to be more productive and efficient in the discharge of their
statutory duties. She said: “We
thank God for the past eight weeks. And finally, we have agreed with the
Labour. We thank Governor Dapo Abiodun (MFR), for approving N30,500 minimum
wage for workers. “We believe
that this kind gesture will make our workers to be more productive and
efficient. And it will translate to more effective service delivery in the
state.” Speaking on
behalf of the Organized Labour, the state chairman of the JNC, Comrade
Olanrewaju Folorunsho, commended the state governor for taking the bold step in
approving the new minimum wage. At the same time, he appreciated the workers’
patience during the negotiations and charged them to reciprocate the kind
gesture by working hard and showing commitment, dedication and selflessness in
the delivery of qualitative service to the citizens of Ogun State. Also, the state
chairman of NLC, Comrade Emmanuel Bankole, underscored the importance of the
successful negotiations that brought about the agreement that was signed in the
overall interests of the workers of the state, after they had considered its
affordability and sustainability. “And this
agreement would be a morale booster for the workers in general”, said Bankole. While lending
credence to his avowed commitment to the “social contract” he entered with the
state workers in his maiden address, shortly after he assumed the leadership
seat on May 29, 2019, Governor Abiodun hasn’t reneged on the promise to live up
to expectations. “Whether FAAC
or JAAC, our administration is committed to ensuring the regular payment of
wages as and when due before the last working day of the month”, averred
Abiodun. Thus, he has
been thinking out of the box, devoid of political vendetta or primordial
sentiment, at ensuring that the conditions of the workers are germane for good
governance. Reminiscent of
his inauguration address as the fifth democratically elected governor of Ogun
state, Abiodun assured and promised to prioritise the welfare of the civil
servants in the state, rather than compound their problems and deny them of
their rights. “Our
administration would provide ‘people-centred’ governance that identifies with
their yearnings and, not the one that glorifies the welfare of cronies and
family members”, declared Mr Governor. Also, Abiodun
reinforced his commitment to the workers’ welfare at a recent send-forth
ceremony organised in honour of the immediate past Head of Service, Mr. Lanre
Bisiriyu and 13 other Permanent Secretaries that were retired from the civil
service. According to
the governor, the present administration would continue to take action that
guarantees industrial harmony between the government and labour. He said: “Our
administration will continue to take the welfare of the civil servants as
priority to guarantee industrial harmony. We shall continue prompt payment of
salaries, leave bonuses and other allowances. And we shall not forget to pay
our senior citizens their pensions and gratuities. “I am happy
that the outgoing HoS mentioned that Ogun State civil servants work with utmost
professionalism as longstanding legacies of the former Heads of Service, like
Pa Simeon Adebo, Pa AK Degun, Mr Sola Adeyemi and a host of others. Among the 36
states, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), the Abiodun-led APC
administration in Ogun State ranks among the few that have taken the welfare of
its workers paramount. “We implore the
state civil servants to sustain the utmost professionalism in its day-to-day
activities. To whom much is given, much is expected, the individual as a
potential supplier of labour is a utility maximizer. Like the government job,
what the individual wants to optimize is the returns or outputs he or she gets
as a result of investing his or her time in work activities. The individual’s
inputs are time and efforts and his or her outputs provide the means or access
to baskets of desired outcomes.” It has also
instilled prudence, financial accountability and discipline in the management
of the meagre resources at its disposal in order to provide good governance to
all and sundry in the state. ––Ogbonnikan, is Media Aide to
the Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, MFR.