 Ferdinand Ekechukwu “Most of my contemporaries no longer exist. The chances of collaborating with them are cancelled.” Such earthly words from legendary musician, Sir Victor Abimbola Olaiya sometime in 2013, shortly after a remix of his song, Baby Jowo, with hip hop star 2Baba, signals the reality of humans as mere mortals as the highlife music maestro joined his contemporaries on Wednesday February 12, 2020, thus bookending a career that influenced many of today’s Nigerian sounds including the revered Afro beat. He was 89 years
of age. One of the best, and possibly the last from his generation, Olaiya a
gifted trumpeter, rose to global fame in the 1950s and 1960s through his blend
of gripping highlife sound. It is no exaggeration that many Nigerians still
prefer listening to music tracks by legends like Victor Olaiya. Their tracks
were enriched with educative lyrics and beats. Sir Victor Olaiya through his
music had impacted many lives. It was the
former Managing Director of the Nigerian Daily Times, Alhaji Alade Odunewu, who
gave him the nickname- ‘Evil Genius of Highlife’ and the name stuck ever since.
His own evil genius was not in a negative sense like another evil genius in
Nigerian politics, rather, he was an evil genius that attracts lovers of
highlife from within and outside the country. One of his
evergreen numbers, Baakodaya, which he waxed in 1960 was used as the signature
tune in announcing election results. A tribute to the late music maestro at his
80th birthday celebration recalls: “As expected then in the Southwest where the
defunct Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) held sway, whenever Bakodaya was playing
on the radio, everybody would rush to hear the result of the election, which would
be predictably in favour of the UPN. Baakodaya became a sound track of
announcing the failure of the NPN candidates at all levels during the 1979
general elections. The music goes thus, ‘Obo n bo Sokoto lona Baakodaya, Baba
Iyabo Mama Iyabo nko, Baakodaya…” While
disclosing how he got the sobriquet, evil genius, the late octogenarian had in
an earlier report said: “Highlife music is 10 per cent inspiration and 90 per
cent perspiration. I am called evil genius because I make my fans sweat through
dancing while enjoying my music. To make a difference in the music, you need to
sweat.” Sourced materials revealed that Papingo Dalaya, as the Highlife maestro
is called, was born on the 31st of December, 1930 in Calabar, Cross River
State. The 20th child of a family of 24, his parents, Alfred Omolona Olaiya and
Bathsheba Owolabi Motajo, came from Ijesha-Ishu in Ekiti State. Olaiya came
from a very rich family. His father’s house called Ilojos Bar stood on Bamgbose
Street, Lagos Island, until it was demolished on September 11, 2016. At an
early age, he learned to play the Bombardon and the French horn. After leaving
school, he moved to Lagos, where he passed the school certificate examination
in 1951 and was accepted by Howard University, US, to study civil engineering.
Olaiya, instead, pursued a career as a musician, to the disapproval of his
parents. His musical
style was influenced by James Brown, with horn parts harmonised in Brown’s
style, as opposed to the mostly unison lines of Afrobeat. The music includes the
swinging percussion of Tony Allen, but not the modified style that Allen later
pioneered. Both Allen and vocalist Fela Kuti played with Olaiya and went on to
achieve individual success. Olaiya’s music
was a bridge between Ghanaian highlife and what would become Afrobeat.
According to the veteran broadcaster and music critic, Benson Idonije, “Olaiya
was influenced by ET Mensah. He used to go to Ghana a lot to watch E.T. Mensah
perform. At some point, both of them collaborated in a performance that held in
Lagos tagged, Highlife Giants.” He later released an album with the Ghanaian
highlife musician. He played with
the Sammy Akpabot Band, was leader and trumpeter for the Old Lagos City
Orchestra and joined the Bobby Benson Jam Session Orchestra. In 1954, Olaiya
formed his own band, the Cool Cats, playing popular highlife music. His band
was chosen to play at the state ball when Queen Elizabeth II of the United
Kingdom visited Nigeria in 1956, and later to play at the state balls when
Nigeria became independent in 1960 and when Nigeria became a republic in 1963.
“I was in my highest spirit that glorious night when my band was set on the
dais to thrill Nigerians, who in spite of the heavy downpour turned out in
their thousands to witness the great occasion.” That was how he
captured the moment. Olaiya said: “Aside being elevated by the honour of being
commissioned to perform at the Independence Day celebrations, I was in fact
spurred by an overwhelming sense of patriotism and honour to thrill the large
crowd that thronged the venue. We were given the rare opportunity and privilege
of being introduced to the dignitaries like Princess Alexandria of Kent, Sir
James Robertson, representing the Queen Elizabeth II of England and Alhaji Sir
Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, (First Nigerian Prime Minister), among others. “While my band
was at the center stage, the Nigerian Police Force band led by Commissioner of
Police, Mr. Benedict E. Odiase (rtd) and the Zeal Onyia led Nigerian National
Band were at hand as supporting bands.”Olaiya renamed his band to the All Stars
Band when they played the 1963 International Jazz Festival in Czechoslovakia. On the latter
occasion, Olaiya shared the stage with the American jazz musician Louis
Armstrong. During the Nigerian Civil War of 1967–70, Olaiya was given the rank
of a lieutenant colonel (honorary) in the Nigerian army and his band played for
the troops at various locations. The Cool Cats later travelled to the Congo to
perform for United Nations troops. Olaiya also ran a business that imported and
distributed musical instruments and accessories throughout West Africa, and
established the Stadium Hotel in Surulere. In 1990, Olaiya
received a fellowship of the Institute of Administrative Management of Nigeria.
For a period, he was also president of the Nigerian Union of Musicians. He
retired from his long music career in 2017 and had some evergreen classics like
Omopupa, Aigana, Pambotoriboto, Opataritius, Mo fe Muyan, Jemila, Kosowo l’ode,
Odale Ore, So fun mi, Omolanke, Tina Mate, among so many others. And a long
list of albums to name. His decision was hinged on failing health and doctor’s
instruction to desist from performances. Prior to making
the decision, the highlife legend every week, staged a command performance at
his Stadium Hotel, which is located on Iyun Street, Surulere, Lagos. His
manager, Gbenga Adewusi, said: “Aside from attending his gigs, he no longer
comes to work regularly as a result of age-related health issues.” Olaiya had
many wives, children and grandchildren. No one knows (at least the media) the
number of children or wives Olaiye had in his lifetime. The late Nollywood
actress, Moji Olaiya, was one of his children. Many eminent
Nigerians have reacted to his sad passing, with some touting his demise as the
end of the Golden era of Highlife. The Mayegun of Yorubaland, Dr. Wasiu Ayinde
Marshal, in a statement released by the media office, said: “Indeed, Sir Victor
Olaiya’s death, though at the advanced age of 89, is a profound loss to the
Yoruba race and global music industry; we are nonetheless comforted by the fact
that he used his talent to bless humanity in general.” Bimbo Esho,
managing director of Evergreen Music Company, the legend’s record label, who
first broke the news in a Facebook post, wrote: “We pray that the Doyen of
highlife music find repose with the creator while wishing the family and entire
music community the fortitude to bear this irreplaceable loss. And to my
namesake Abimbola Olaiya, I will miss your contribution to highlife music”. Music star
Innocent Idibia @official2Baba tweeted “Devastated by the news of the passing
of Dr. Victor Olaiya – maestro, mentor, legend. Thanks for the beautiful music.
Thanks for the inspiration. Blessed for the honour of sharing a mic and stage
with you. Rest in peace baba.” Former vice
president Atiku Abubakar @atiku tweeted: “My condolences to the family of
Nigeria’s highlife legend, Sir Victor Olaiya, OON. His artful delivery on the
trumpet and his hits from the 50s, are moments we’d never forget. Most
recently, the duet with @official2baba, was a musical bridge to travel. May his
soul Rest In Peace.”