 The Supreme Court has been adding a lot of spice to our
politics in recent times, but I did not see the Bayelsa bombshell coming. Less
than 24 hours to the swearing-in of APC’s David Lyon as the governor, the court
nullified his election because of the credentials of Senator Biobarakuma
Degi-Eremienyo, the deputy governor-elect. The two-time senator was accused of
providing “false information” and swearing to an affidavit to back his claims
in the nomination forms submitted to the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC). Since his candidature was nullified, that also meant Lyon,
his principal, suffered the collateral damage. Both of them had to go down
together. The PDP had challenged the Lyon/Degi-Eremienyo ticket at a
federal high court in Abuja before the November 16, 2019 election. Four days to
the D-Day, Justice Inyang Ekwo delivered a judgment disqualifying APC from the
election, ruling that there was no connection between the names on Degi-Eremienyo’s
various certificates. The submitted first school leaving certificate, West
African secondary school certificate, first degree and graduate degree all have
different names. The court concluded that this was false information and
disqualified him. Since the governorship nomination is invalid without a
running mate, it meant APC was not qualified to run in the election. Degi-Eremienyo appealed, not surprisingly. Two days to the
election, the Court of Appeal granted an injunction suspending the high court
judgment in order to allow APC participate in the election. Then on December
23, 2019 — five weeks after the election had
been won by the Lyon/Degi-Eremienyo ticket in the traditionally PDP state — the Court of Appeal ruled in favour
of APC. Not surprisingly again, PDP appealed. Nigeria is configured in a way
that until a case reaches the Supreme Court, litigation won’t stop. These days,
they are even appealing against the apex court! If it were still possible, they
would be heading to Privy Council in the UK, the highest court during colonial
rule. In any case, PDP had a good outing in the Supreme Court,
which upheld the high court judgment, nullified the votes scored by APC in the
election, and asked INEC to do the rest of the job in line with constitutional
requirements — unlike in the Imo case when it
specifically asked INEC to return Senator Hope Uzodinma of the APC as the
winner of the governorship election. The initial question being raised on
social media, where most discussions take place nowadays, was that PDP’s Douye
Diri could not be declared winner because he did not score one-thirds of votes
cast in two-thirds of the state. They forgot that APC’s votes would now count
for nothing in the final analysis. After looking at the whole drama, I have a number of observations,
conclusions and recommendations. For one, I am still not sure there is a
water-tight case of false information against Degi-Eremienyo. The fact that
somebody used different names at different times does not mean the information
is false. Was it ascertained that he is, indeed, not the same person? A cousin
of mine, now of blessed memory, used at least five different names in her
lifetime. She woke up one day, dropped her family name, adopted her maternal
grandfather’s, changed to her step grandfather’s, then to her husband’s and finally
to her father’s first name. She battled rejection all her life. The lesson here, for me, is that things have to be done
properly and in order. Degi-Eremienyo should have sworn to affidavits at each
point he changed his name — if that was
the real case. In Nigeria, we do things anyhow, believing there would be no
consequences. People even have different dates of birth. BVN registration has put
many Nigerians in trouble. Our “anyhowness” in Nigeria does not have a parallel
elsewhere in the world. I want to assume that this is what has come back to
bite Degi-Eremienyo. I don’t know how much effort his lawyers made in court to
prove that he is the same person. Twitter arguments cannot replace court submissions. Two, the time has come for the National Assembly to make a
law mandating INEC to verify certificates. From what I understand, a vast
number of Nigerian politicians are parading fake documents: fake birth
certificates, fake school certificates, fake degrees, including PhDs, and fake
NYSC discharge certificates. A former speaker of the House of Representatives
once told me that when he wanted to constitute committees and asked members to
submit their credentials, he almost ran mad. He could not believe the number of
“honourable members” who came forward with bogus certificates, mostly from
foreign institutions. They know they can get away with it. INEC used to disqualify candidates after screening their
credentials until the Supreme Court ruled in favour of Vice-President Atiku
Abubakar in 2007. President Olusegun Obasanjo had desperately tried to
disqualify Atiku from contesting in that year’s presidential election after
their very public falling-out. He set up the Ignatius Ayua panel, made up of
famous names such as Oby Ezekwesili, to indict Atiku. INEC eagerly used the
white paper to carry out the order. But the Supreme Court ruled that INEC could
not disqualify anybody, that only a court could. The court apparently wanted to
clip Obasanjo’s tyranny, but it ended up creating a destructive lacuna. INEC
must get back its power. Three, politicians and political parties must begin to take
the nomination process more seriously. That is one big lesson that should stick
out from the Bayelsa case. APC did a poor job in its selection of candidates
for the 2019 elections. There was hardly any state where the APC conducted
itself decently. They ended up not having governorship candidates in Rivers and
Zamfara states because of these shenanigans. I have always believed that there
is no difference between APC and PDP apart from APC’s world-class expertise in
propaganda — and I have never seen anything to
make me change my mind. Their character and characteristics are strikingly
alike. When the Supreme Court uninstalled PDP’s Rt Hon Emeka
Ihedioha as the governor of Imo state and replaced him with Uzodinma, the PDP
cried blue murder, saying “our democracy is endangered”. APC said justice was
well served. Now that the same court has nullified the election of APC’s Lyon
as governor of Bayelsa, PDP is happy while the APC is crying “our democracy is
endangered”. It reminds me of when APC was the leading opposition party in the
country: the only election that was “free, fair and credible” was the one they
won. If PDP won, they would demand that Prof Attahiru Jega, the INEC chairman
at the time, be fired. Birds of a feather. Four, there is a debate as to why a governorship candidate
should be disqualified on the account of the illegibility of the running mate.
Everybody should carry their own can, according to a particular line of
argument. This is tricky. It can be argued that since it is a joint ticket and
the requirements are the same, what affects one must affect the other. This is
because if a governor dies, resigns or is removed from office, the deputy steps
in automatically. Therefore, it makes sense that both of them are treated as
two sides of a coin. I do not think we need to change our laws in that regard.
Parties should just make sure their tickets are not contaminated by either
candidate. Five, I like the fact that the Supreme Court did not declare
Odiri the governor-elect. It simply said INEC should do the math and conclude
its job. This, in my view, is the logical thing to do. This is a departure from
the Imo case where it asked INEC to return Uzodinma as governor-elect. I still
believe that what the Supreme Court should have done was to order INEC to
include the 388 result sheets excluded from collation, do the math and complete
the job. This would have allowed INEC to check if Uzodinma met the crucial
constitutional requirement of spread — failing which there would have been a run-off between him and Ihedioha. That
makes more sense to me. Finally, it may not seem like it but our democracy has just
been strengthened. When the Supreme Court nullified APC’s votes, I was quietly
afraid INEC was going to play some funny games to please the ruling party by
not declaring PDP as the winner. INEC usually took its cue from Obasanjo in
those days. In fact, it appeared INEC was a chapter of PDP before Jega became
its chairman. The party essentially gave directives to INEC which the electoral
umpire dutifully obeyed. I was, therefore, expecting something funny from INEC
on Friday. I thought they would still be counting APC’s useless votes. But they
rose to the occasion and did the right and lawful thing. For me, this is
progress.