 Omololu
Ogunmade in Abuja and Francis
Sardauna in Katsina President Muhammadu Buhari at
the weekend condemned the latest round of reprisals on farmers by bandits in
Damkar and Tsanwa villages in Batsari Local Government Area of Katsina State. The president, according to a
statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba
Shehu, described reprisals under whatever guise as unacceptable. Buhari was reacting to the
attacks in which at least 30 people were killed and many homesteads razed. Katsina State Governor, Hon.
Aminu Bello Masari, on his part, commiserated with the victims of the banditry
in the state. The president warned that “no
one in the country has a right to take laws into his hands by the way of
self-help or revenge.” He added: “Local
communities that catch bandits should hand over the suspects to law enforcement
authorities instead of meting out capital punishment, leading to a cycle of revenge
and counter revenge.” Buhari urged community leaders
and local authorities to sustain efforts in partnering with law enforcement
agencies, which bring the bandits to surrender, resulting in peace between
farmers and herders. “The authorities must be
allowed to investigate and deal with any breach that occurs. There is no place
for violence in a decent society,” he said. He prayed God to comfort the
bereaved families and for the repose of the souls of the victims. Masari also commiserated with
the victims of the banditry. Masari, who was speaking
yesterday in Malumfashi during the disbursement of empowerment items to
residents of Funtua senatorial zone, assured the people that his administration
will continually frustrate the operations of bandits and end banditry. He said both the state and
federal governments were determined and working assiduously to end the carnage
by the bandits. The governor added that
strategic measures were being taken to curb banditry and urged members of the
communities to assist security agencies with valuable information about
miscreants and their informants. He called on the National
Assembly to strengthen national security by enacting relevant laws that will
provide security operatives with working tools to end security challenges
facing the nation. The governor commiserated with
the bereaved families  and prayed to God
to give them the fortitude to bear the irreplaceable loss. Masari reaffirmed that the
commitment of his administration to protect the lives and property of the
people will not be derailed by the indiscriminate violence against innocent
people orchestrated by bandits. He said: “I want to seize
this opportunity and commiserate with the people of Batsari Local Government
over the attack that led to the death of about 27 people. “And I think we need to look at a better security
structure for this country for the betterment of Nigerians. I therefore appeal
to the Senate to strengthen national security.”