 Chinedu
Eze Dubai-based
mega carrier, Emirates Airlines, has stopped flight operations to Murtala
Muhammed International Airport, Lagos until the airport’s Instrument Landing
System (ILS) is fixed. ILS
is a navigational aid that guides aircraft to land, especially during low
visibility. Since
last Monday, airlines, especially foreign carriers have been diverting flights
destined to Lagos to Accra, Ghana and Dakar, Senegal due to Harmattan haze,
which lowers visibility. Last
Thursday, Emirates diverted its Lagos flight to Accra and engaged domestic
carrier, Arik Air to airlift them to Lagos. THISDAY learnt yesterday that
Emirates recalled its three sets of crew stranded in Lagos since Monday and
flew them to Dubai on a chartered flight via Abuja. Reports
indicate that over 1500 Nigerians are standard in Accra, Ghana as there were no
adequate arrangements to airlift them from Accra to Lagos. Some
of them are staying in hotels paid for by airlines that diverted flight to the
neigbouring country, while others were left to fend for themselves by the
airlines. According
to reports, British Airways (BA) has already cancelled its flight to Lagos due
to operational constraints. In
an email sent to passengers, the airline notified them of its plans to airlift
those interested back to the United Kingdom. It
said: “BA075-We would like to sincerely apologise for the disruption to your
journey to Lagos. Due to adverse weather at the airport, we were unable to
safely land into Lagos Airport… If you wish to travel from Accra – London
Heathrow, there are limited availability of seats to book on,” the email read. “Please
speak with our colleagues at the airport to adjust your ticket, subject to
availability. BA078 Accra – London Heathrow is scheduled to depart at 23:00
local time. Please submit your receipts for claims hotels, transport,
refreshment, the cost for calls and Internet access & transport to www.ba.com/helpme. “Our
Customer Relations team will review each case on an individual basis. We
understand this is not what you expect when you travel with us and apologise
for the significant inconvenience we have caused to your journey.” Delta
Air Lines was also reported to have taken its Lagos based passengers back to
the US when it could not land in Lagos. However,
the US based carrier diverted its previous flights to Accra and Dakar
respectively. The
Harmattan haze reduced visibility below 800 meters minima, so airlines needed
ILS to land but the Category 3 ILS, which enables aircraft to land at zero
visibility was installed last year but the calibration was not completed so it
could not be put in use. So
under the current dust haze occasioned by the Harmattan, it would be difficult
to land at the airport, as the status at the airport could not meet many of the
airlines’ standard operating procedure. Many
of the international carriers like British Airways, Lufthansa, Air France, KLM,
Delta Air Line diverted flights and may also consider suspending flights to
Lagos. The
airlines, aviation agencies have lost huge revenues over delays, flight
cancellation and flight diversion, situations that left passengers stranded at
the airports. The
Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika on Thursday apologised to airlines
and passengers over the bad weather and malfunctioning ILS and said that the
Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) was working tirelessly to restore
the ILS. The
minister expressed concern over the suffering of air travellers to and from the
Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos regarding flights
diversion and, in many cases, outright cancellations, which have been
occasioned by highly inclement weather conditions. The
Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), which earlier issued a circular to
pilots and airlines over the weather, has announced that the adverse weather
may last till March. It
stated that the prevailing inclement weather was a global experience at the
moment, which had warranted cancellation of in-bound international flights
alike; therefore, not peculiar to Nigeria. In
statement signed by its spokesman, Sam Adurogboye, NCAA said: “Air-to-ground
visibility may be considerably reduced due to dust haze; aerodrome visibility
may fall below the prescribed operating minima and in severe conditions, dust
haze can blot out runways, markers and airfield lightings over wide areas
making visual navigation extremely difficult or impossible; and flights are
bound to be delayed, diverted or cancelled where terminal visibility falls
below the prescribed aerodrome operating minima.”