 The shocking
revelation by the Tertiary Education Trust Fund
that many Nigerian lecturers use the grants meant for academic research to buy
properties has once again enlivened discourse on the rising corruption in the
academia. This and a similar allegation of personnel budget inflation by some
institutions including the University of Ibadan, and the reported certificate
scandal involving Mr Chima Igwe of the Federal Institute of Industrial Research
(FIIRO) Oshodi, Lagos, is the height of it. Speaking
in Dubai on Monday, the TETfund’s director of research and development, Salihu
Bakari decried the reduction in the number of research applicants. He noted
that as of 2019, out of 229 eligible public institutions, only 26 applied for
journal publications. This is as the agency announced availability of funds for
manuscript development, ICT development, advocacy, among others. But “lecturers
and their institutions are not coming forward to access the funds,” he said.
The academics are running away from research. What are the academics doing?
What is academia without research? Which nation attains development in economy,
technology, agriculture and even politics without researchers? I think Nigeria’s biggest problem now is not the
politicians who are offshoots of a failed education system themselves but the
academics who are emerging the perfect portraits of the rot. It is better we
stopped kicking the can down the road. The town and gown anywhere means the
haven of knowledge and character. They recount the past, mould the present and
build the future. One may say the sanctity and virility of the town and gown in
a nation points to its potential for growth. They research issues and
phenomenon and publish the findings as template for further knowledge. They are
the model persons in the society. In learning and character, the academics take
the lead. In a situation where they fail at these, they are succeeding at
nurturing the wolves who will h(a)unt the society. A
cursory look at this argument will further the questions: Did our leaders fall
from Heaven? Are Nigerian universities producing leaders and not mediocre? Are
our academics of high morals? The pervading immorality and corruption is so
blinding I am tempted to conclude we are merely dreaming of renaissance if all
we have left are the Chima Igwes and the lecturers using grants to acquire
properties. These ones will give us more Evans and Oyenusis than Moghalus and
Patanmis. The
Nigerian varsities appear to be overwhelmed by the filth in the society. It may
be unfair to underpin the hefty weight of the nation’s descent in morality on
their head. We also have the shifty religious institutions and unceremonious
family tree, including the compromising media among the failing agents of
socialization. But we can’t excuse them for adding to the societal woes as
perhaps the most important unit of the society for failing to maintain its
decency and ardor for morality. This is what the TETfund story tells us. There
is a disaster in the university walls and not only on our fields in the North
or in the hallowed chambers in the East or on the streets in the South. Unless we have concluded plans to be perpetually
dreamful, we cannot allow the town and the gown join the wigs; and the clergy,
and the uniformed men, and others on the pulpit of decadence or else.
Therefore, we will need to take the news about academics with seriousness. If
corruption prowls the corridors of power, should academia not be the bastion of
our values? We can only dream of attaining economic growth and technological
advancement only through purposeful research by the academics. That is echoing
Prof. Katampa’s saying that “a nation is as good as the quality of her
researchers.” •Ibraheem Abdullateef, Kwara
State University, Malete