 For
some time now, the erratic weather has continued unabated, the scorching
temperatures, the dry air which attacks our nostrils; the dust everywhere and
the skin tends to get ashy quickly. In some areas a fresh cloud of dew covers
the palm trees, the mountains; in other areas hot, dry and draughty air buffets
the rooms, making millions of people uncomfortable. Seasons and time seemed
poised in uncertainty. The
above scenario allows scientists’ prediction comes true. The scientists had
long foreshadowed that climate change would increase extreme weather incidents
but why is this so? That is simply the impact of global warming. According to
the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,   “Global
warming refers only to the Earth’s rising surface temperature,
while climate change includes warming and the “side effects”
of warming—like melting glaciers, heavier rainstorms, or more frequent drought.
The erratic weather is not only in Nigeria but a global phenomenon. Anyone travelling in the untarred road in some northern
parts of the country would not only have wind sing loudly into his ear but will
be turbaned in dusty tan. In the past, one could predict assuredly when and how
cloud of dust would envelop a trekker but today distorted seasons have come to
stay. When
the whirlwind starts in some parts of the world, some would begin to speak in
tongue. According to the guardian.com, “The current heatwave has been caused by
an extraordinary stalling of the jet stream wind, which usually funnels cool
Atlantic weather over the continent. This has left hot, dry air in place for
two months – far longer than usual. The stalling of the northern hemisphere jet
stream is being increasingly firmly linked to global warming, in
particular to the rapid heating of the Arctic and resulting loss of sea ice.’’ Australia is sweltering through record-breaking heat. And
the worst is yet to come. While the current heat continues to cause problems
for Australians now, scientists warn that without coordinated action on climate
change, heat waves will become more likely. In the southern state of Tasmania,
dozens of bushfires broke out, destroying homes and wilderness as hundreds of
firefighters sought to get the blazes under control. Scientists claimed that global warming can contribute to the
intensity of heat waves by increasing the chances of very hot days and nights.
More droughts create dry fields and forest that are prone to catching fire, and
increasing temperatures mean a longer wildfire season. More effect of global warming include: rise in sea level
which increases the amount of seawater, the seawater along with more rainfall
can result in destructive flooding. Yes, for many states, harmattan is characterized by very
cold temperatures, particularly in the mornings and nights and very hot
weather in the afternoons. The humidity also falls really low and the air is
dusty which makes the skin dries up quickly. But this is much more than what
was experienced decades ago where you are sure of when rain would fall. The
climate has changed and we are at the threshold of telling what conditions we
were during those changes and proffering a permanent solution to it, how and
when it will happen is what we don’t know. Science is too important to be
left alone in the hands of the scientists. It is distressing to see that we
have not taken the necessary action that would ameliorate the effect of climate
change. It is high time we made an important cuts needed in greenhouse gas
emissions… but more importantly takes daily steps to deliberately lessen the
impact of global warming and climate change in our own small changes. Such
steps include: Use of LED for lighting and avoid more energy demand,  eat
less meat, invest in your own sources of renewable energy, educate yourself on
the CO2 impact of goods and services you consume, buy gas and electricity from
retailers who sell renewable power, among others. I can say without mincing
words that reducing carbon emissions requires a large scale action which the
government must not shy away from. •Olusanya
Anjorin, Lagos