 Sylvester Idowu in Warri The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Edo/Delta Command has
generated N1.8 billion in January 2020. Comptroller of Customs, Edo/Delta Command, Compt. Olaniyi
Alajogun, made the disclosure in an interview with THISDAY. He said the federal government gave his command a revenue
target of N32 billion in the 2020 fiscal year, as against the target of N18
billion recorded in 2019. The 2020 revenue target figure, according to him, translated to
N2.7 billion per month in contrast to last year’s monthly target of N1.5 billion. Alajogun, explained that the upward review of the revenue target
for the Command became imperative as the federal government increased the
target for the entire Nigeria Customs Service in 2020, to about N2 trillion. He, however, expressed optimism that collections for subsequent
months would show progressive improvement. “I want to believe that it is always like that at the
beginning of every year all over the place because that is when businessmen are
expecting what the Budget and the government policies will look like”, he
said. The Customs Area Controller revealed that irrespective of the
challenges confronting the Edo/Delta Command, it did well in 2019 when it even
surpassed its revenue target of N18,023,840,518.73 for the year, by recording
N22,181,117,360.75. Comparatively, the figure showed that the revenue collected for
the year 2019 under review was N6,350,682,647.75 higher than the collections
for 2018. Alajogun, therefore, tasked the officers and men of the Command
to see the new revenue target as a wakeup call and endeavor to put in their
expertise to justify the confidence reposed in them. “The revenue that we will be able to collect in the Command
is largely based on the cargo input, that is, the volume of cargo that we are
able to get.  And considering the peculiar nature of this Port (Warri
Ports), we know it is not very active Port, and it is no mean task; but we are
always hopeful that things will get better. “On our part, the best we can do is to make sure that the
little cargo that comes, we make sure we collect all collectable revenue by
putting in our expertise and make sure that no revenue that is supposed to come
into government coffers go untapped. So, that is the best we can do considering
the cargo inlet that we have in this axis. “We are determined that whatever little things we have; due
diligence must be done to make sure we collect maximum duty.  It is just a
question of applying ourselves properly to the job we have to do,” he  added. Alajogun, also commended the federal government over the ongoing
dredging activities at the Escravos bar at the Warri Ports, saying that,
“when completed, there will be improvement in the operations of the
Customs Service within the Area Command.” He spoke further on the dredging activities, saying, “Government
is on this issue. I think they started about a year ago. They have been on it. 
We are all praying that it is completed as soon as possible.  But now that
the work is ongoing, nobody knows the time that the work will be completed. But
I think the joy is that as soon as the work is completed, there will be
improvement in our activities in this area and that will change the narratives
because the obstacles that are preventing vessels from coming here are still
there, that is, the shallowness of the channels and all that. “Had it been we are in a situation like TinCan or Apapa
where big vessels bring cargoes, we may also have been beneficiaries of the
border closure because all the cargoes that are supposed to go to Cotonou since
the border closure were compelled to come to our seaports.  Unfortunately,
the vessels that bring them cannot come to Warri”, he stated. He said:  “The challenges affecting our revenue
collection in Edo/Delta Command are beyond us.  They are notably the
issues of the channels and all that have led to inactivity in the
Command.  Once these ones are addressed, and they are not challenges that
we on our own could address, it is something that the government is supposed to
handle and they are handling it.” Comptroller Alajogun urged the stakeholders to continue to be
compliant noting that as soon as activities pick up in the Ports, there is the
tendency that new ones will join them. “I will only encourage those who are already on ground to
ensure that they put the new ones that will join them on the right track so
that this place will be seen to be a command that is compliant with government
policies”, he said.