The United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc has launched ‘Click Credit’, a time loan designed to address the urgent needs of customers whose salary accounts are domiciled with the bank. As a bank backed by a strong retail franchise with over 1,000 business offices serving 19 million customers, UBA said it introduced the product in line with its mission of creating value for its customers while assisting them to meet up with their urgent needs. The loan product, already being enjoyed by millions of customers in Nigeria would be extended to the bank’s other franchises in Africa, it explained in a statement. The solution is expected to improve the lives of the UBA customers. It is a superfast loan product which would allow qualified customers to apply for up to N5 million loan and pay back over 12 months at an interest rate of 1.58 per cent per month, with no hidden fees. Specifically, salary earners from N25,000 per month who fall between the ages of 18 and 59 can benefit from this facility with no extra fees; no need for collaterals, no paper-work or other difficult issues when it comes to this facility; as customers can even apply via LEO, UBA Mobile Banking and UBA internet banking. UBA’s Group Head of Retail Banking, Mr. Jude Anele, who revealed that qualified customers have begun to enjoy the service, explained that the loan provides immediate access to funds once eligibility is confirmed in less than a meeting He said, “As Africa’s most innovative and technology-driven financial institution with an array of novel products and services tailored to the needs of its millions of customers, we have launched Click Credit, which is straightforward and more affordable than many other loan products in the market. Its unique feature is that it meets a critical credit need for our customers.” Anele while emphasising the critical role that credit plays in any developing and developed society, said it was part of the customers’ financial power where they can be assisted to get the things they need, when they need them without hassles. While explaining that this product is being rolled out first in Nigeria and subsequently in the rest of UBA’s countries of operations; he explained that UBA was committed to ensuring that Click Credit helps the bank’s customers to cover critical needs and set them up for success, having moved past that moment of need. On her part, UBA’s Group Head, Marketing, Dupe Olusola, reiterated that UBA remains focused on empowering its customers to fund their urgent needs. “At UBA, we work hard to be there in the moments that matter to our customers, hence, our huge investment in technology and other facilities to make banking easier and seamless,” Olusola explained.