 Ibrahim
Oyewale in Lokoja The
Kogi State Government yesterday disclosed that it would partner the security
agencies in the state curb the rising tide of Kidnapping and other criminality. The
state government also noted that it would take the fight to the den of the
kidnappers terrorising the unsuspecting residents and travellers across the
state. The
state governor, Mr. Yahaya Bello disclosed this at the special valedictory
session organised in honour of Late Justice Tom Shaibu Yakubu who was laid go
rest in Enjema, Ankpa Local Government Area, Lokoja Friday. Bello
said the state government would not fold it arms “to allow criminal elements in
any disguise to take over the highways to perpetrate evils. Their activities
has become worrisome. “We
are combat ready to take the fight to the den of the kidnappers. I will not
negotiate with any criminal. Rather, I will do everything possible to ensure
that criminal elements are flushed out of the state.” He
stated that the present administration was determined “to provide security of
lives and property of the citizens of the state, threatening that any one
caught in the act would decisively dealt with and also be made to face the
wrath of the law.” At
the session, a former student leader, Mr. Dare Zaccheaus lauded the governor
for his efforts “to make Kogi State safe for the citizens and travellers plying
the highways across the state.” He
called the governor to engage the service of vigilance group, noting that the
officers of the State Police Command “are currently sabotaging the efforts of
the government in combating crimes.” He
lamented that he had the privilege to travel to Kabba from Lokoja on daily
basis, stressing that one hardly see the presence of the men of the Nigerian
Police Command on the highway. He noted
that the only police check point in Odo Ape “has become a point where men of
the Kogi Police Command have arranged to constantly collect N50 without
recourse to the insecurity situation that warranted their deployment to man the
roads. “The
flashpoints along Lokoja-Kabba road have been deliberately abandoned all in an
attempt to frustrate the state governments Security Efforts”, he pointed out He,
therefore, urged the state government “to deploy, as a matter of urgency,  the men of the Kogi State Vigilance Service,
who have proven to be effective in the state.