 The All Progressives Congress (APC) Saturday dismissed claims that its former National Chairman, Chief Bisi Akande was on the payroll of Ondo State Governor, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, thereby a vote of confidence him The APC disclosed
that it would henceforth discipline any person or a group of persons, who
disrespect party leaders, in line with the provisions of its constitution,
warning against making unfounded allegations. The party’s National
Vice Chairman, Southwest, Mr. Bankole Oluwajana gave the warning in a
statement, condemning attempts by some members of the party in Ondo State to
discredit the former governor of Osun State. The APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole had inaugurated
a 12-,man National Reconciliation Committee after the rejection of a ten-man
committee it constituted in December 2019 to pacify the warring factions across
different parts of the federation. With the appointment
of Akande as the chairman of the committee, the Ondo APC Unity Forum had
consequently rejected Akande’s choice in a communiqué, alleging that some
members were interested parties and could not be judges in their own case. Specifically, the
group had alleged that Akande was part of the committee that met in Akure, Ondo
State in July 2019, when it was agreed that the party executive in the state be
dissolved, but up till this moment, the governor had been blocking the
dissolution It had claimed that
the dissolution that was jointly agreed on in the presence of Akande; APC
National Leader, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu; former Ogun State Governor, Chief
Segun Osoba; Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi; former APC National Vice
Chairman, Chief Pius Akinyelure and his successor, Oluwajana. Faulting the allegations of the Ondo APC Unity Group
yesterday, Oluwajana noted that Akande was never on the payroll of Akeredolu,
describing the allegations as frivolous, uncharitable and unfounded. He said the APC
leadership was shocked and hugely embarrassed that “a supposed member of APC
can publicly cast aspersions and throw muds at Akande whose greatest asset is
his unblemished name and untainted integrity. “This can only come
from a member who joined APC midway and had not been indoctrinated to the ethos
and tradition of the progressives, especially in the South West, where we hold
our leaders in high esteem.” Oluwajana urged all
APC members to commit themselves “to the ideals of our party among which is the
utmost respect to our leaders at all times.” He said the party
leadership “will visit any member, who disparages APC leaders with severe
sanctions and the full weight of APC Constitution on discipline will be brought
to bear on such individuals or group of persons, however highly placed. APC is
not a lawless party. “Members can criticize and disagree with the leaders on
principles and opinions but no members have the latitude to attack the
personality of the leaders, assassinate their character and bring them to
public ridicule “Chief Bisi Akande is the Foundation and Pioneer National
Chairman of APC and one of the best in the South West going by his track
records and spotless character. He deserves respect from all at all times. “The South West APC leaders hereby pass a vote of
confidence on Chief Bisi Akande and its newly inaugurated National Reconciliation
Committee,” he said.