Ecobank Nigeria is to hold its 2020 regional trade forum in Lagos. The forum taking place in March, will be a two-day event, providing the opportunity for exporters and importers within Africa to exhibit their products in a marketplace scenario with panel discussions by highly experienced and diversified stakeholders and leaders of thought in the industry. Announcing the Trade Forum in Lagos over the weekend, the Head Trade Finance of Ecobank Nigeria Mr. Sunday Abah, said Ecobank would use the forum to unveil its comprehensive trade solutions to its existing and prospective customers, by sharing the various payment methods available to facilitate cross border trade throughout its network across Africa. According to him, Ecobank recognises the role of exporters and importers in driving economies through trade. “By creating a networking forum for importers and exporters via the trade exhibition slated for the first day of the forum, the bank extends support to stakeholders in export and import businesses. “Ecobank’s trade products and solutions are designed around two broad areas: Trade finance which enables customers benefit from adequate and well mitigated credit facilitation in the area of Import finance, export finance, bill discounting, trade loans, distributor finance, structured trade and commodity finance amongst others. “Also we do Trade Services, which gives our customers the advantage of speedy turnaround time and error free processing of Import Letters of Credit,  Import collections, Customs bonds, Export collections and regional trade services amongst others,” he noted. Ecobank’s intra-Africa trade solutions enable settlements of trade transactions and mitigation of payment risk; provide regional solutions and enable exporters obtain payment guarantees without the need for a letter of credit and its related costs to the importer. Firm Holds Summit on Advertising As part of efforts to accelerate growth in Nigeria’s marketing communications industry and propel all-round relevance of the industry, the management of 789 Marketing, an online marketing communications portal, has concluded arrangement to organise an industry evening summit with the theme: “Advertising and the Power of the Nigerian Story.” The event will hold first week in March in Lagos. The Chief Press Secretary to Lagos State Governor, Gboyega Akosile, will be the special guest of honour at the occasion. The lead paper for the evening would be presented by the Chief Creative Officer, Noah’s Ark Limited, Mr. Lanre Adisa, while the CEO, Frutta Juice and Services, Onyekachi Onubogu; Group Head, Communications and External Affairs, Access Bank Plc, Amaechi Okobi; and Vice President, CSR and Communications, Airtel Nigeria, Mr. Emeka Oparah, among others, would discuss the paper. The event, according to the Chief Excutive Officer of the company, Goddie Ofose, was designed, “to bring together industry leaders that I have interacted with over the years in the quest to rev up conversations that will move the Nigerian Marketing and Communications industry forward.” Ofose, also believed that with theme of the night, all other stakeholders present would explore the overriding engagement benefits derivable in deepening the Nigerian social-cultural content in advertising. The programme which is scheduled to be an annual event would attract stakeholders in Nigeria’s marketing communications industry, corporate organisations, young practitioners and students from selected universities and other higher institutions in the country.