Chiemelie Ezeobi, Sunday Ehigiator and Chiamaka Ozulumba, write that across the country, the once forgotten menace of kidnapping has resurged with victims ranging from children to the elderly, while some end up being killed, just as demands for ransom continue to rise When the Ataga family woke up on Saturday, January 25, 2020, nothing prepared them for the tragedy that would befall them. They were abducted during the invasion of the dreaded kidnappers of Juji community in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The kidnappers, who were said to have engaged security operatives in a serious gun battle, also killed a member of the community’s vigilante group. Afterwards, they later broke into the Atagas’ home and whisked away Mrs. Ataga and two children. The abductors demanded N150 million ransom for their release  and negotiations were  still on before they killed her. Although the amount paid as ransom was not stated by the family, the kidnappers had initially demanded for N150 million but when the family could not meet the request, they killed the matriarch and subsequently demanded N20 million for the release of her children. The Ataga’s are  just one of several Nigerians who have in the past year been kidnapped. Although kidnapping had for sometime become a back burner issue, especially after the arrest of the notorious Evans, it later resurged last year. It would be stating the obvious to say that the kidnappers came back. They left the trenches and started abducting their victims and demanding for ransom in return. Given the alacrity at which they swoop in and execute their well-lined out strategy, Nigerians now live in perpetual fear of the unknown and in most kidnap cases, the end goal for each of kidnap case, is usually the demand for ransom which often run into millions of naira. It’s noteworthy to mention that the African Insurance Organisation designated Nigeria as the global capital for kidnap for ransom, having overtaken countries like Colombia and Mexico that were hitherto front-runners. For many Nigerians, that the kidnappers have held the nation hostage is not the major problem, rather the seeming helplessness of security agencies in the face of such insecurity, poses great danger. In Adamawa State alone, 13 professors and 287 persons were kidnapped in 2019, followed by Zamfara with 281, while in Kogi and Niger States,  65 and 51 persons, respectively were kidnapped within the period. Those are documented cases. There are yet several that went under the radar as the family quietly paid the ransom and secured the release of their loved one. The figures above were given by the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, who fingered the reign of bandits in Zamfara as the cause of the high figure. No Sacred Cows Before, the victims were the rich or well connected. Now, the spread has touched virtually all strata and class. From the rich to the poor, the aged to youths and children. Again, no strata is left out as doctors, pastors, teachers, judges and even traders, among others, have become victims of this well-oiled thriving syndicate. Ransom as Cash Cow It is pertinent to note that these kidnappers do not just strike for the fun of it. No. They have embraced the business because it has become a juicy cash cow that keeps yielding fruit. This according to experts should be blamed on the desperation of families to secure the release of their loved ones, which has emboldened the kidnappers who know they can always coerce the cooperation of victims’ families to keep the security agents off their trail. A police officer who spoke on anonymity said: “As a law enforcement agency guided by rule of law and professional ethics we do not under any circumstance encourage the payment of ransom to kidnappers or other criminals as it is tantamount to rewarding crime and motivating other criminals to follow that path. “History has shown that even where ransom is proven to have been paid the life or safe return of a kidnap victim may not be guaranteed. Whatever the family do as regards payment of ransom is usually outside the knowledge and consent of the police and at this point we wish to advice that in future families who fall victims of such acts should rather work closely with the police component of the rescue initiative so that we can achieve the primary purpose of rescuing the victim alive instead of wittingly or unwittingly giving the impression of encouraging criminal activity by rewarding criminals with payment of ransom.” Personal Locator Beacons To ameliorate the increasing spate of kidnapping in Nigeria, security experts have advocated for the Personal Locator Beacons (PLB). The way it works, one has to trigger it when they are kidnapped so their locations will show. The beacon is usually registered in the name of the owner and when triggered, their data comes to the system, and the rescue team are alerted. The PLB can also be bu ilt into wrist watches as a disguise. The snag however is the cost. As useful as the PLB is, one could cost between 300 to 700 dollars, and as such only about 300 PLBs are in circulation in Nigeria and that is too small a number compared to what is applicable worldwide. Death Penalty as Panacea Although the law has a spelt out punishment for kidnappers, many are however of the opinion that death penalty should be adopted. Also, although there is already a subsisting law that prescribes death penalty for  kidnapping, it has seemingly not deterred the kidnappers from carrying out their nefarious activities. It was the then  Senate President, David Mark, that advocated for death penalty for kidnappers, adding that it was merely the application of “Hammurabi’s ancient Mesopotamian law of an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth”. In September 2017,   Senate  passed a bill which outlaws abduction, wrongful restraint or confinement for ransom. The Senate also approved death sentence for whoever engages in the act and a 30 years jail term for anybody that colludes with an abductor.  The bill sponsored by Isa Misau, APC-Bauchi, was passed into law after a consideration of the report by Senate committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters and was aimed at giving wider powers to the IG of Police to ensure adequate policing. Although Nigerians have unanimously condemned kidnapping, many are however of the opinion that the root causes of kidnapping- poverty, illiteracy, unemployment, ostentatious display of wealth and greed, must be addressed. Therefore, they noted that first, government must ensure the dividends of democracy reach the common man. Also, the police must be proactive in its constitutional role of protecting citizens by ensuring that they are up to par operationally and intelligence-wise. Also, given that security is everyone’s business,   community leaders, residents and youths should support the police with information. This is because the one of the solutions to the seeming inexorable menace of kidnapping is understanding that the police alone cannot redeem the situation effectively without the collective backing of the entire community and the people.