The Lagos State Government has affirmed that there has been a massive drop in the rate of fatal accidents involving commercial motorcycles, popularly known as ‘Okada’, since the restriction of their movements in six local government areas comprising of 475 routes, including major roads, highways and bridges across the State. A statement issued yesterday by the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso disclosed that data from the state Police Command confirmed that Okada-rider accidents reduced from 19 in January 2020 before the restriction order to one between February 1 and 20. “The February lone accident, which happened on 02/02/2020 at about 1200 hours, involved a Hovo Sino Trailer with registration number GWL-315-XA, driven by one Shaibu Abdullahi, allegedly knocked down a Bajaj Motorcycle with registration number SMK-386-QA along Sagamu Road, by Cele Bus-Stop, Ikorodu,” the commissioner said. Giving further details about the incident, he added that “the rider, named Walbe Deshi and his passenger, also identified as Sadiq Seyok, sustained severe injuries and were taken to Ikorodu General Hospital for treatment where the rider later died”. Omotoso pointed out that the current situation is a radical departure from the casualty rate between January and December 2019 when there were 168 commercial motorcycles accidents involving 226 victims, leaving 201 persons dead. While reiterating the present administration’s resolve to ensure the safety and security of all Lagos residents, the commissioner gave the assurance that the palliative measures being rolled out by the state government will provide enduring and permanent solutions to public transportation problems in the state. He maintained that the present difficulty being experienced in the transport sector is one of the attributes of megacities that witness a huge influx of migrants, assuring that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his team have the experience and wherewithal to fashion-out permanent solutions to the lingering issues in the traffic and transportation sector. “Residents should remain confident that this administration is doing everything necessary to fulfill its promises under each pillar of the T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda. There will always be challenges but strategies are in place to confront and surmount every difficulty arising from the need to accommodate the people who arrive Lagos daily to seek greener pastures”.