By Olaoluwakitan Babatunde Life of Bim and DreamChaser, two movies produced by the inaugural class of the MultiChoice Talent Factory (MTF) West Africa, have been nominated for the 2020 Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Award (AMVCA). The movies were nominated alongside Ensulo and Promises (East Africa) and Savannah Skies and The Painting (Southern Africa) for the for the newly created MultiChoice Talent Factory award category of the AMVCAs. The new award category aims to reward excellence in storytelling and provide a platform for alumni of MTF Academies, a shared value-initiative of MultiChoice Africa launched in May 2018 to create a pipeline of skilled and talented movie professionals that produce high quality locally relevant, content that resonate with African viewers. “I am excited about the new MTF category in the AMVCA because it showcases the AMVCA’s commitment to the importance of professional training as a critical factor towards enabling richer storytelling,” said Femi Odugbemi, the MTF West Africa Academy Director and Head of the 2020 AMVCA panel of judges. Life of Bim is a film about an aspiring footballer whose dreams of becoming a professional athlete are threatened by family pressure. On the other hand, Dreamchaser follows a young woman as she navigates the challenges of the music industry. Since inception in 2013, the AMVCAs have celebrated contributions of African filmmakers, actors and industry specialists in the continued growth of the continent’s film and television industry and lives up to one of the MultiChoice Group’s pillars of being the most-loved African storyteller. Through launching the MultiChoice Talent Factory Award, the AMVCAs becomes a platform for MTF alumni across West, East and Southern Africa to build strong creative reputations and provide a springboard for their careers. Seven of the AMVCA’s 28 categories are open to public voting and 21 categories, including the MultiChoice Talent Factory Award, will be decided by the AMVCA panel of judges. Voting for the awards is now open and closes at 00:00 CAT on Saturday, 7 March. The seventh edition of AMVCAs, shown live across Africa on Africa Magic, is sponsored by Amstel Malta and will hold on 14 March, in Lagos.