 Chineme Okafor in Abuja Nigeria has gotten an
approval from the International Court of Arbitration to resume works on its
3050 megawatts (MW) capacity Mambilla hydro power plant, the federal government
has said. According to a statement
from the ministry of power, a lawsuit filed at the International Court of
Arbitration against the execution of the project which could be the country’s
largest hydro power plant when completed, has been withdrawn. The ministry quoted the
chairman of the project delivery committee for the plant, Mr. Farouk Yabo, to
have made the disclosure during the project’s sensitisation meeting. Yabo, explained that the
lawsuit was one of the factors that had stalled the power project, adding that
40 years after it was initiated the legal issue had finally been resolved and
the lawsuit withdrawn. “The person that took the
federal government to the International Court of Arbitration has already withdrawn
the case last week,” he said, adding that the plaintiff had reached an
agreement with the government. Similarly, the ministry
stated that the government inaugurated the project delivery committee to
fast-track its execution. It quoted the Minister of
Power, Mr. Sale Mamman, to have said that the committee was approved by
President Mohammadu Buhari, as well as the constitution of an Inter-Ministerial
Steering Committee (IMSC) which he chairs. The IMSC, he noted has
been tasked with the responsibility of facilitating seamless strategic
coordination of activities for effective delivery of the project. “This committee will be
supported by the project delivery committee, which will be responsible for
overseeing the implementation of the project,” he explained. He further stated that
prior to the inauguration of the committees, the ministry initiated some steps
for a successful take-off of the project. Similarly, the statement
quoted the Minister of State for Power, Mr. Goddy Jedy-Agba, to have urged
members of the committees to put in their best in the tasks assigned to them.