An Igbosere High Court in Lagos thursday granted N20million bail to a Musician Iyanya Mbuk, popularly known as Iyanya, over alleged car theft. Justice Mobolanle Okikiolu-Ighile ordered Iyanya to produce a surety in the like sum, who should also have landed property in Lagos with a Certificate of Occupancy. The judge warned him to perfect the conditions within seven days, “otherwise the bail shall be revoked”. The judge also insisted that he has a case to answer. The judge said: “I have perused the affidavit and the counter-affidavit of the parties; there is a prima facie case of criminal conversion against him. “However, there is nothing to show that the defendant will interfere with the proceedings of this case and nothing to show that he will jump bail if granted bail. “Bail is therefore granted to the defendant in the sum of N20 million with one surety in the like sum”. The judge adjourned till May 27 and 28 for trial. The police filed the one-count charge marked LD/9024c/2019, against the singer on March 15, 2019. Iyanya failed to appear in court for arraignment, despite allegedly being served with the charge and hearing notice, following which the arraignment was adjourned six times. Justice Okikiolu-Ighile threatened to invoke the power of the court to ensure Iyanya’s attendance to take his plea. The ‘Kukere’ crooner appeared before the judge on February 4, 2020, following which the charge was read to him. Prosecution counsel, Mr. Chukwu Agwu, a Superintendent of Police (SP), alleged that Iyanya committed the offence sometime in September 2018. The court heard that the defendant dishonestly converted to his use or of another person, a Black Toyota Land Cruiser Prado Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) marked MAVINIY, with Chassis and Engine numbers JTEBX7FJ7EK165480 and 2TR1385954. Agwu told the court that said vehicle belongs to ‘The Temple Management Company Limited, represented by a lawyer, Ayodeji Olomojobi. The offence, according to the prosecutor, was contrary to Sections 278(1) (b), 279(1)(2) and punishable under Section 285(10) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2011. Iyanya pleaded not guilty. Agwu prayed the court to remand the defendant in the Nigerian Correctional Services (NCS) custody, pending the hearing and determination of his bail application. But Iyanya’s counsel, Mr Williams A., opposed him. He prayed the court to release the musician to him and undertook to produce him in court on yesterday. Justice Okikiolu-Ighile granted the defence counsel’s prayer.