The federal government said it generated a total of N1.289 billion from ground rents, premiums, consent, registration and penal fees among others between 2017 till date The Director, Lands and Housing Development Department, Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Mrs. Great-Edereka, disclosed this yesterday at the opening ceremony of the 26th conference of directors of lands in the federal and state ministries departments and agencies in Abuja. She said the conference with the theme: “Land Use Reform as Conflict Resolution Mechanism”, is aimed at proffering solutions to various land conflicts and management challenges in the country so as to address the disputes and disagreements that often arise between individuals on matters relating to land. Great-Edereka while noting that the department of lands and housing of the ministry on weekly basis chunk out 50 properties being properly titled, said between 2017 till date, they have been able to executive about 3200 Certificates of Occupancy between. “Between 2019 till date, the Minister of Works and Housing has been able to consent 518 secondary transactions and this has helped title holders to improve their economic power,” she said. While emphasising on the need to key into the systematic land titling process, the director said the system would allow all owners of lands in the country to be titled so as enable them secure loans with their properties. Earlier, the Minister of State, Ministry of Works and Housing, Mr. Abubakar Aliyu, assured that the ministry will continue to play its primary role in providing enabling environment for private sector participation in housing delivery. He urged all state government officials and other relevant stakeholders to continue to cooperate with the Presidential Technical Committee on Land Reform (PTCLR) to ensure the adoption and implementation of Systematic Land Titling and Registration (SLTR) in all of the 36 States and the Federal Capital Territory. He said the ministry will soon embark on full automation of Certificate of Occupancy issuance in the Land Department in order to address the ease and cost of property registration.