 Ebere Nwoji The Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA), has commended President Muhammadu Buhari,  for the speedy assent to the Finance Act 2020. The association described the move as a welcome
development which would usher in a new lease of life for insurance companies. NIA Director General, Mrs. Yetunde Ilori, made
the remarks in a statement obtained at the weekend. She also commended the
Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Shamsuna Ahmed, for taking
special interest in matters affecting the insurance industry, noting that her
desire to promote the business of insurance was appreciated. According to her, the various amendments brought about
by the provisions of the Finance Act 2020 has lifted a huge tax burden off the
insurance companies which had endured years of excruciating tax burden under
CITA 2007  which did not place insurance companies at a level playing
field with companies in other sectors of the Nigerian economy. Giving specific details, she stated that Sections 5
and 6 of the Finance Act, 2020 repealed the punitive and outdated
provisions of Section 16 of the Companies Income Tax Act on the taxation of
insurance companies, thus resolving significantly tax issues identified in the
sector. She also highlighted areas the new act favored the
insurers, saying, “additionally, the new Act has eliminated among other
things: restriction of tax-deductible claims and outgoings to percentage of
total premium restriction of period to carry forward tax losses to
four years the special punitive deemed profit basis for minimum
tax computation. “The Finance Act also resolved the issue of
computation of deductible unexpired risk by adopting the use of time
apportionment basis in line with the Insurance Act.” Expressing delight over the matter, she stated that
insurance companies would now be able to carry forward losses indefinitely like
companies in other sectors of the economy as opposed to the 4-year restriction
previously in place resulting in fiscal equity. “The Finance Act has also simplified basis of
computation of minimum tax payable by insurance companies as opposed to the
2007 Act which basis differs significantly from that adopted for other Nigerian
companies,” she added. “The Finance Act 2020 provides an inclusion of
proper definition of investment income for life insurance business as income
derived from investment of shareholders’ funds. “This will ensure that income attributable to
investment of life insurance policy holders’ (insurance customers) funds are
not subjected to tax in the hands of life insurance companies,” she explained.