 •Soldiers
deployed, 3-day curfew imposed, as protests rock Yenagoa •Houses
of Dickson, Diri vandalised •Jonathan
congratulates new governor, says he will live up to expectations Emmanuel
Addeh in Yenagoa, Chuks
Okocha and Adedayo Akinwale in
Abuja Duoye Diri of the Peoples
Democratic Party (PDP) was yesterday evening inaugurated as the fifth governor
of Bayelsa State, amid violent protests by supporters of David Lyon of the All
Progressives Congress (APC). The Independent National
Electoral Commission, (INEC), had declared Diri winner of the Bayelsa
governorship election yesterday after the Supreme Court nullified the election
of Lyon, barely 24 hours to his inauguration. Diri scored 143,172 votes out
of 146,999 lawful votes and was subsequently presented certificate of return by
INEC in Abuja earlier yesterday. He succeeds Seriake Dickson, also of the PDP. Chief Judge of the State,
Justice Kate Abiri, administered the oath of office on Diri and his deputy,
Lawrence Ewhrudjakpor. The inauguration ceremony was
moved from the Samson Siasia stadium for security reasons, following protests
that erupted in the morning. The ceremony, which took
place at the Government House, Yenagoa, was met with huge celebration among the
party supporters, who thronged the Creek House in their thousands. Speaking during the event,
Diri declared that he would always work to achieve peace, love and prosperity
for the people. He described the swearing in
day, as “a day made by God” which he said is “marvelous in the
eye of the people of Bayelsa.” He said: “I have been
sworn in today as your new governor. My advice is that we have to be
magnanimous in victory. We have to forget the bitterness, and the acrimony,
because if we kill ourselves, who are we going to lead? Of course, we are not
going lead animals. “I, therefore bring to
you a message of love, hope and prosperity for Bayelsa. Let us eschew all the
bitterness and acrimony and learn to love ourselves irrespective of political
parties.” The ceremony was attended by
governors of Oyo and Bauchi states, Seyi Makinde and Bala Muhammad
respectively. Meanwhile, in an unexpected
move, former President Goodluck Jonathan has congratulated the new governor,
stressing that he was hopeful that he would deliver. “I congratulate His
Excellency, Senator Douye Diri who was sworn in today as the 5th Civilian
Governor of Bayelsa State, in compliance with the Supreme court verdict of
yesterday, 13th February 2020. As governor, the responsibility of building hope
and sustaining peace across the state now lies on your shoulders. I urge you to
always bear in mind that you are the Governor of all Bayelsans and to seize
this moment of glory to build bridges of unity by entrenching a culture of
love, fairness and justice in our polity. “Your journey to Creek
Haven is a divine one, so I advise you to use the position to do good to
humanity and pursue the development of the state in order to write your name in
gold. “You have worked with me
before as a commissioner, so I am without doubt that you will live up to the
expectations of our people. “I call on all Bayelsans to
be law-abiding, peaceful and embrace this transition in all sincerity, and work
together towards a united and prosperous State”, he wrote in a tweet. Violent
Protest Following the violent
protest, soldiers were deployed in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital. The Bayelsa State Police
Command also declared a three-day dusk to dawn curfew in the state. At a press briefing attended
by security heads in the state, the Commissioner of Police, Uche Anozia, said
the curfew was necessary to curtail any security breach. He explained that anyone who
violates the 8pm to 6am curfew, would be dealt with in accordance with the law. The inauguration of Diri took
place at Government House, Onopa, because of the crisis. The hoodlums invaded the
house of Dickson, in Opolo, Yenagoa, and destroyed several cars. However,
scores of the hoodlums were apprehended by mobile policemen who were deployed
to maintain the peace in the area. Some of the items looted by
the hoodlums, including several television sets and other properties were
recovered by the security men. Chanting anti-PDP songs, the
angry youths also marched to the house of the governor-elect, Diri and
destroyed the windscreens of cars packed in the premises. They also attacked the public
library built by a member representing Yenagoa and Kolokuma/Opokuma federal
constituency in the National Assembly, Prof Steve Azaiki, a staunch PDP
chieftain. Also, part of the PDP
Secretariat in Yenagoa and Radio Bayelsa, owned by the state government were
attacked by the hoodlums, who looted and destroyed the state’s property in the
process, including buses parked at the premises. Many residents remained
indoors yesterday for fear of attacks while the streets across the city were
temporarily deserted. Some APC youths, on Thursday
night made bonfires around Tombia roundabout and extended it around Opolo in
Yenagoa by Friday morning. The youths created a blockade
enroute the inauguration venue in the state capital, where Diri was to be sworn
in, with shouts of “No David Lyon, no governor”. In Kaiama,  Kolokuma/Opokuma, travellers were stranded at
the Kiama Bridge end of the East-West Road, which links the South to Eastern
Nigeria. The protesters bearing APC banners blocked the road, grounding traffic
on both sides. Bayelsa
Violence: Arrest Oshiomhole Now, PDP Tells IGP Dissatisfied with yesterday’s
developments, the PDP has called on the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed
Adamu, to immediately arrest the National Chairman of the APC, Adams
Oshiomhole, for questioning, and subsequent prosecution for incitement. The party in a statement by
the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said that the violence and
arson perpetuated by APC agents in Yenagoa, was in furtherance of Oshiomhole’s
inciting call that no governor would be sworn-in in Bayelsa State, contrary to
the judgment of the Supreme Court. According to PDP, “Oshiomhole’s
statement is a direct call for sedition and violent subversion of the 1999
Constitution (as amended), the statutory authority of the Supreme Court and the
mandate of the people of Bayelsa State”. PDP said that the former
governor should therefore be arrested for prosecution for inciting violence and
arson in the state. “Nigerians can recall
that our party had on Thursday cautioned Oshiomhole over his utterances and
apparent plots to cause violence and a breakdown of law and order in the state. “The world however
watched with horror as APC agents, chanting APC slogans, assaulted the people
of Bayelsa State, set the PDP secretariat in the state ablaze, attacked the
premises of Radio Bayelsa, vandalised vehicles and equipment, took over major
highways and attacked travellers, all in the bid to violently subvert the
judgment of the Supreme court and forcefully take control of the state”,
the main opposition party said. The PDP therefore charged the
people of Bayelsa, the security agencies and Nigerians at large, to hold
Oshiomhole responsible and accountable for the violence in Bayelsa state and
deal with him accordingly in line with the provisions of our laws. The party insisted that
Oshiomhole must be brought to book and stopped from the use of garrulity and
clear misuse of language to cause crisis in the country. Meanwhile, Dickson has
ascribed the verdict of the Supreme Court, which returned Diri as the governor,
to the mercies of God. Dickson commended the
Judiciary for their courage, strict and exemplary adherence to the ethos of the
hallowed profession. He also thanked the Bayelsa
people, all Nigerians of goodwill and the clergy for their support and
persistent prayers throughout the period of pre-election dispute in the court. Dickson said in a statement
by his Chief Press Secretary, Fidelis Soriwei that the victory was not just for
the PDP but also the whole of Bayelsa and the entire Ijaw nation. Secondus
Dedicates Diri Victory to God On his part, the National
Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus declared that the Supreme Court
victory of Diri was the work of God, adding, “in deed, power belongs to God.” Speaking when Diri presented
the certificate of return to him in Abuja, the national chairman said:  “This victory is dedicated to God Almighty
because as we know, power cometh from God not from man and in this case, it was
a long journey to freedom. “Now is the time for us
to come together especially the people of Bayelsa State. It is not in the
falling, but it is in the rising, according to Mandela that makes a man. “This is the time to
establish the truth and reconciliation committee for the benefit and genuine
reconciliation of all Bayelsans. There will be no victor, there will also be no
vanquished. So we urge the new governor elect and deputy governor elect to
quickly go to work, embrace everyone regardless of their linings or parties
because this is what PDP represents.” Reiterating his position that
power belongs to God, the national chairman of PDP, said: “God has given
you power not man. So go and be good ambassadors of the nation and your state
and the party. There shall be no rancour. Call all the elders, all the youths
of both Bayelsan people together to work. It is not the party, party is
important it is the platform, but the service you are going to render to the
people of Bayelsa should be uppermost in your mind and that is how to build a
nation.” INEC
Wrong to Issue Certificate to Diri, Oshiomhole Insists Also yesterday, Oshiomhole
insisted that INEC was wrong to have issued Certificate of Return (CoR) to Diri
as Bayesla State governor-elect. He lamented that INEC chose
to appropriate the judicial powers of the court to interpret laws, when it
(electoral umpire) was neither competent nor has the mandate so to do. Addressing a press conference
in Abuja, the second after the judgement was delivered, Oshiomhole insisted
that the Supreme Court for good reason gave a conditional order that INEC
should swear in the second candidate with the highest number of vote and the
required constitutional spread. He stated: “I believe that
the fact the Supreme Court insisted on constitutional spread is in recognition
of the fact that the constitution does not want a situation in which anyone,
governor or president, presides over the affairs of a state without at least
enjoying two third support of electorate of that state. “Clearly,  the votes scored by PDP and their candidate
in that election only met requirements in five local governments and you need
six local governments to meet the requirement of two third. The PDP candidate
did not satisfy this requirement. “INEC is now choosing to
appropriate the judicial powers of the court to interpret laws that is neither
competent to do nor has the mandate so to do. INEC fails to recognise that its
responsibility does not include legal interpretation and the Supreme Court did
not ask INEC to go and begin to assume the judicial powers. “All what INEC needs to do is
simple arithmetic. Who has the next highest votes?  Does such person have required vote
spread?  If the answer is no, INEC can do
no more. Now, INEC has decided to assume that the case of Bayelsa is exactly
the same case as that of Zamfara. “We recognise that having
purported to have been sworn in, or issued certificate to PDP candidate, we
still believe that there are viable legal widows that we will explore. We
affirm our confidence in the judiciary even with pains in our hearts.” The
APC national chairman noted that if it were the intention of the Supreme Court
to nullify or to declare the votes cast in favour of APC as wasted, the Supreme
Court should have said so, adding that “INEC cannot import into the judgement
or delete anything from the judgement.”