 • Says Buhari is in big trouble  • Christian group urges FG to seek foreign assistance Kayode
Fasua in Abeokuta The leader of the Boko Haram sect, Abubakar Shekau has
issued a threat to the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Mr. Isa
Pantami. However, Christian leaders under the aegis of International
Christian Conscience Initiative (ICCI) have called on President Muhammadu
Buhari to cast aside national ego and enlist the support of the western powers
in fighting terrorism in the North-east. The insurgent leader threatened the minister in a new video, directing his men to go after Pantami for threatening to block the communication lines of the sect members. In the video he released Thursday, Shekau also threatened
journalists, warning them to be cautious about how they report the activities
of his group. Specifically, he reminded the minister that his group
killed a famous Kano cleric in 2007, saying a similar fate could befall Pantami
if he did not repent. He said: “This video message is specifically released
because of one man, who thinks he is knowledgeable. I want him to archive this
message and continue referring to it till his death comes. From today onward,
you will continue to live in sorrow, because I, Shekau, say so. “This warning is for Isa Panatami. Don’t think simply
because you preach in English or because you are called a doctor, it means you
have knowledge of Islam. You know nothing. “Today, you have become a minister, and you are feeling you
can achieve your selfish ends. You must know that speaking English has nothing
to do with Islam. “You said you are going to block phone lines and other
means of communication, to frustrate the activities of Boko Haram, right? But you
must understand that we don’t depend on such to take out our messages. “Our messengers are like the angels of God. How dare you
attempt to stop the works we are doing for the creator of the heavens and
earth, simply because you have become a slave to the white world and the
country. We pity you if you do not repent. “I swear to God, you are nothing. Initially, we have not
begrudged with you, but now you have become a slave to the infidels; repent now
and become a good Muslim. If you do not comply from now on, death will come to
you, Isa Ali Pantami. “I call on my members in Africa, in Nigeria to rise and do
the needful. Let them know that what we did to Sheik Jafar is just the tip of
the iceberg. Anywhere you see Isa Ali Pantami, don’t spare him. “Isa Ali Pantami you are nothing; even Jafar tried the same
thing but we dealt with him; talk less of you that is nothing in Islamic
practice. And from today on, you would not have rest of mind because you have
dared God.” Shekau taunted President Muhammadu Buhari, making reference
to how he was booed when he visited Maiduguri earlier in the week. He said: “And you, President Buhari, you said you are
almost 80 years old and you are busy going about, and now your people have
started booing, right? You just wait for your angels of death,” he said. “Simply because some persons told you that they have killed
our commanders, so now you are emboldened and you want to kill Shekau, right?
Who is Shekau, a small person to you? “But you are now in trouble Mr. Buhari; you are in big
trouble. I am still here, that little boy that has defied the leaders of the
world. I am still around, you just wait, it will soon be over before we all
meet in the hereafter.” In a communiqué it issued after a two-day meeting in
Abeokuta, the Christian group said it was clear that the armed forces were
overwhelmed and required foreign reinforcements in containing aggressions from
Boko Haram and the Islamic State’s West African Province (ISWAP) terrorist
groups. The communiqué, which was signed by the group’s
President, Prof. Olakunle Macaulay and Secretary, Rev. Moses Ajayi expressed
outrage at the killings and wanton destruction of properties in Maiduguri,
Borno State last week, despite government’s assurances that the insurgents had
been kept at bay. The communiqué lamented the incapacitation of the federal
government to stop the incessant killings of innocent people, especially
Christians; abduction and raping of women, and the forced conversion of people
to Islam. Given these ugly
trends, the communiqué urged the governments of the United Kingdom (UK), the
United States of America (USA), France and Spain, to help stop these inhuman
activities of the dreaded group called Boko Haram. Besides, the communiqué urged the President “not to
hesitate to remove service chiefs whose periods have either expired or who have
run out of military strategies. “Nigeria’s Christian leaders support the position of the
Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Hausa Christian Fellowship, and Tekan
Fellowship of Churches concerning the insecurity of lives and properties of
Nigera’s innocent citizens. “We therefore, advise the President  to change all the service chiefs whose
periods have expired and have run out of military strategies to combat  Boko Haram terrorists, and provide adequate
weapons for the soldiers at the warfronts.” The communiqué also called for the disbandment of the
Nigeria Inter-religious Council (NIREC), averring that it had outlived its
usefulness; “having maintained a loud silence in the face of persistent cases
of religious intolerance and other acts of injustice”. Aside, it endorsed the establishment of the Southwest
security outfit code-named ‘Operation Amotekun, noting that since
the federal government could not ensure the safety of lives and properties, the
constituent states were in order to wade in. “If the federal government that has a responsibility to
protect lives and properties cannot discharge the function effectively, then
the states should act. “The truth is that, the federal government has
failed to stem the tide of kidnapping and raping that lately stalked the
southwestern territory of the country. “This is evident in the inability of the police to bring
the situation under control; therefore, the Amotekun is an alternative police,
since the police have proved inefficient to meet public expectations.” It urged the federal government to increase the police
personnel, saying most communities are under-policed; and that modern weapons
should be provided for them, to make them efficient.