 Dike
Onwuamaeze The federal government has
clarified that  deposits into savings
accounts that is up to N10,000 are not exempted from the payment of N50 stamp
duty under the Finance Act of 2020. Director General of Budget
Office of the Federation, Mr. Ben Akabueze, said in Lagos at the weekend that
the Finance Act, 2020 did not make any distinction to that effect. He spoke in Lagos at the
weekend during the KPMG Nigeria’s Tax Breakfast Seminar on 2020 National Budget
and Finance Act. “The Finance Act makes no
distinction between savings and current accounts. So, if people are now
planning to become owners of savings account, let them know that it won’t
work,” Akabueze said. Also at the occasion, Executive
Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Services (FIRS), Mr. Muhammad Nami,
warned owners of businesses who would divert payments due to their businesses
to their  personal accounts, saying they
should not get away with the unwholesome act as FIRS has the software to trace
such diversions with account holders’ BVN. Nami also said filing of
returns on goods and services consumed in 2019 but were paid for after the
Finance Act of 2020 came into effect would be computed at the old Value Added
Tax (VAT) rate of five per cent. “I think that is the way to go
for now. But for every service that was consumed from February 1, 2020, will be
charged the new VAT rate of 7.5 per cent,” he said. He added that the FIRS and the
Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning would issue a public
statement to clarify the confusion trailing the issue of taxation of a foreign
business with significant presence in Nigeria. The statement, according to
him, would be ready once the agencies are through with their deliberation on
the subject. “We have a very competent team
that is working on that and in a very short while you will get the public
notice. “We cannot hope to see any
improvement in the delivery of public services if we don’t increase tax
revenues.  The good thing about paying
taxes is that it awakens the citizens to hold their government more
accountable,” he said. Akabueze also stated that there
was no going back on the payment of minimum taxes by businesses whether they
make profit or not. “The truth is that a business
imposes demand on government budget whether it is running at a loss or not
because it uses public infrastructure provided and maintained by public
revenue. That is why we need to push back the insinuation against the
imposition of minimum tax obligations on companies. Otherwise we will not make
a head way in improving government services,” he said. However, the Chairman of KPMG
Africa, Mr. Kunle Elebute, advised the government to introduce reforms that
would catalyse Nigeria’s economic growth rate and enhance activities for firms
so that they would earn more taxable income. “We need to see more robust
growth in this economy for the government to register higher tax revenues. We
need to see growth in the housing sector by having long term mortgage market
for 20 to 25 years on a single digit interest rate. This will enable the
housing sector to drive most businesses,” Elebute said, adding that the Finance
Act would bring clarity in government fiscal policy. The Chief Executive Officer of Seplat Petroleum
Development Company Plc, Mr. Austin Avuru, in his speech, said: “Let me say
that every operator wants to make as high a taxable margin as possible. Because
government will collect high tax and he will collect high profit. There is none
of us that will want his tax margin room to be low. It doesn’t pay us
anything.”