Bennett Oghifo The Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS) is set to partner with the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) to avail the Force the competencies of members of the Institute in ensuring that construction projects are well executed in line with international best practices. The President of the Institute, QS Mohammed Abba Tor, FNIQS made this known when he led members of the National Executive Council (NEC) on a courtesy visit to the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar in his office at Nigerian Air Force Headquarters, Abuja on Wednesday. Abba Tor said the Institute would work to explore areas of mutual interest and collaboration between the NAF and the NIQS, thereby contributing to national growth and development. He urged the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar to employ additional Quantity Surveyors into the Service to enable them play crucial roles in costing and cost management of all building and engineering projects being handled by the Force. Responding, Air Marshal Sadique said the NAF will immediately key into the opportunities provided by the Institute in the areas of training and evaluation of projects. Abubakar noted that, in the last 5 years, the strength of the NAF had almost doubled and this made it expedient to continually embark on construction of new buildings and other necessary infrastructure to ensure that personnel are properly accommodated. According to him, among the many officers enlisted into the NAF through the Direct Short Service Commission in the past 5 years, some were Quantity Surveyors who have been adding value to the Service through the application of their professional knowledge and skills. He added that in the area of capacity building, the NAF had trained several professionals and would not relent in its efforts at ensuring that its personnel remain abreast of modern trends and innovations in the field of Quantity Surveying. While assuring the Institute of the readiness of the NAF to enlist more Quantity Surveyors, Air Marshal Abubakar, noted that the Service would also improve on its participation in workshops and seminars that would be organized by the NIQS. He added that the Nigerian Air Force will consider the establishment of a Department of Quantity Surveying at the Air Force Institute of Technology Kaduna in line with the requirements of the National Universities Commission and the National Board for Technical Education.