 •Seeks
end to violent protests Ejiofor
Alike The Minister of State for
Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva, has called for calm and restraint over the
nullification of the election of the All Progressives Congress (APC)  governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, Mr.
David Lyon, by the Supreme Court and the swearing in of Senator Douye Diri of
the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as governor. In a statement he personally
signed, Sylva, who is the state leader of the party and a former governor of
the state, also apologised to President Muhammadu Buhari for the disruption of
his earlier scheduled visit to the state to witness the inauguration of Lyon as
governor before the Supreme Court judgment. The Supreme Court last
Thursday had voided the election of Lyon, on the eve of his inauguration, over
the qualification of his running mate and deputy governor-elect, Mr.
Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo. The court said Lyon’s running mate presented false
information and was, therefore, not eligible to run. The apex court ordered the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to issue the political party
and candidate with the second highest votes a certificate of return. The PDP’s Diri, who came
second in the election,  received the
certificate of return on February 14 and was sworn in same day. The Supreme Court judgment
triggered a wave of protests and arsons by APC supporters who  lit bonfires on major streets of Yenagoa, the
state capital, and allegedly torched the homes of Diri and his predecessor,
Hon. Seriake Dickson. In his first statement since
the Supreme Court aborted the dream of APC to take over Bayelsa, which has been
PDP’s stronghold since 1999, Sylva urged the residents of the state to
“shun all acts of violence and lawlessness.” In apologising to Buhari, he
said: “Also of great importance to me is to extend my profound apology to
our President, HE (His Excellency) Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, over the avoidable
disruption to his busy schedule, which was caused by the events of the moment.
I am aware that Mr. President and his lovely wife, HE Aisha Buhari, had
concluded arrangements to travel to Bayelsa to witness the inauguration of the
APC governorship candidate as governor of Bayelsa State. I, therefore extend my
apology to Mr. President and members of his entourage.” Sylva asked the people of
Bayelsa State to apply “restraint at all times,” adding that even
though “the events of the last few days are as painful as they are
regrettable, however tempting it might be for anyone to take the law into their
hands, such temptation must be resisted in the greater interest of our state
and the political stability of the country at large.” He said the APC leadership
had directed its team of legal experts to “study the situation critically
and proffer legal options available to the party accordingly.” “We should therefore all
remain faithful to, and have confidence in, the wisdom and ability of the party
leadership to provide direction at this very sensitive time,” he added. The minister urged the
people, “irrespective of whatever differences there may be to eschew
violence and respect the security measures put in place by appropriate
authorities.” He gave assurance that
“despite this temporary setback, APC in Bayelsa remains strong and its
members resolute in our support for the ideals of a greater and prosperous
Nigeria as envisioned by President Buhari.” Following the violence that
greeted the Supreme Court’s verdict, the Bayelsa Police Command had imposed a
dusk-to-dawn curfew in the state. The Commissioner of Police,
Mr. Usher Anozie, while briefing journalists on Friday in Yenagoa, had said the
curfew was from 8 p.m to 6a.m., and from Friday to Sunday (yesterday). “We are to brief on what
happened today, where angry politicians stormed the streets of Yenagoa which
went violent. “The police have arrested
about eight suspects in connection with the protest. “In this process, the command
has imposed dusk-to-dawn curfew in the state from 8p.m. to 6a.m. “Members of the public should stay in their houses
because the command is ready to arrest anybody. Avoid anything that can cause
the breakdown of law,” he had said. APC Writes INEC, Demands Fresh
Governorship Election in Bayelsa The ruling All Progressives Congress
(APC) has demanded a fresh election in Bayelsa State. The party said the swearing-in of the
candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (APC) as governor was
unconstitutional as he did not meet the mandatory constitutional requirement. The National Chairman of the party,
Adams Oshiomhole, in a letter of appeal to the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC), affirmed the supremacy of the Supreme Court nullification of
its governorship candidate’s victory, but argued that the sworn-in candidate,
Duoye Diri, also failed to meet the mandatory requirement to become the
governor. The letter, which was forwarded to the
national chairman of INEC, was titled, ‘Judgement in Appeal No: SC.1/2020
between Peoples Democratic Party Request for conduct of fresh governorship
election in Bayelsa State’. It said the court judgment did not void
the votes that the APC polled at the election and the implication of this is
that the votes of the party must be reckoned with. ‘’Kindly recall that the governorship
election in Bayelsa State was conducted on  November 16, 2019 and our
great party, the APC, duly participated at the said election. You will also
recall that the APC emerged victorious at the election leading to our Lyon
David Pereworinimi being declared and returned as winner of the election,’’ the
letter reads. “Our attention has been drawn to the
judgment of the Supreme Court delivered on  February 14, 2020 in the
pre-election appeal filed by the PDP and its governorship as well as deputy
governorship,’’ Oshiomhole wrote. ‘‘In the said judgement of the Supreme
Court, the candidature of our governorship and deputy governorship candidates
were nullified and the commission was ordered to issue fresh certificate of
returns with the highest number of votes and with the required geographical
spread. “It is however to be noted that the Supreme
Court did not void the votes that our party polled at the election and the
implication of this is that the votes of the APC must be reckoned with in
determining whether any other candidate polled majority of lawful votes cast in
one-quarter of at least two thirds majority of the state. ‘‘We have reviewed the judgment of the
Supreme Court and we are of the firm opinion that the candidates of the PDP
cannot be issued certificate of return and or sworn in as the Governor and
Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State respectively. ‘‘We are aware of that section
179(1)(b) of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
mandatorily requires a candidate for an election to the office of governor of a
state to have not less than one quarter of the votes cast at the election in
each of at least two thirds of all the local government areas in the state
before the candidate can be deemed to have been duly elected as the Governor of
the State. This mandatory requirement was affirmed by the supreme court in the
judgement under reference.” The letter highlighted that Bayelsa
State has eight local government areas, hence the two thirds of at least eight
local government areas will be approximated to six local government areas. “From the results announced and duly published
by the commission, it is clear that no candidates meet this mandatory
constitutional requirement, including the candidates of the who only managed to
poll one quarter of the votes cast in only five local government areas,” the
APC said. The party said its position is
fortified by the fact that there is a condition precedent to the winner being
issued a certificate of return. “The candidate of the PDP or any other
candidate whatsoever, none satisfies the requirement of one quarter of the
votes cast in at least 2/3 of the local government areas in the state as
required by the supreme court judgment further request that a fresh election be
conducted by the commission for the office of the Executive Governor of Bayelsa
State,” the letter highlighted.