 Adibe
Emenyonu in Benin City The Auchi Cooperative Union in Etsako Local Government Area, Edo State saturday warned the Deputy Governor, Mr. Philil Shaibu to cede Auchi land to other neighbouring communities in the awaiting boundary adjustment. The Chairman of the cooperative union, Alhaji Abdullahi
Muhammed gave the warning in a statement, saying there might be another
communal strife similar to what happened in 1982 if the plan succeeded. Muhammed explained that the Ighodoro Commission of Enquiry
had already settled what the deputy governor, who is from Jattu, a community in
Etsako West LGA wanted to do. He explained that the commission settled the boundary
issues between Auchi and Ikpeshi, Auchi and Ivbiaro, Auchi and Warrake, Auchi
and Agbede and Auchi and Iyakpi contained in a government white paper signed
into law on April 7, 1984. He recalled that the communal conflict of 1982 occurred
when the people of Jattu violated the traditional boundaries established in the
May 17, 1942 boundary settlement. Since then, he said peace “has returned to the area until
Shaibu, a native of Jattu whose determination is to take vengeance on the Auchi
people decided to do otherwise. “The climax was reached on February 4, 2020 when the people
of Warrake moved into Auchi farm land, armed with shot guns, AK47, pump action
and cutlasses,” he said. He alleged that they kidnapped 52 residents and eight
workers of Ezo Nigeria Ltd paid to clear land for cultivation under a
memorandum of understanding between the Elephant Group, cassava farm cluster
farmers in Etsako west LGA and Edo State. The community leader explained that the police “at Afuze
swiftly moved in, freed the hostages and handed them over to Auchi people
before violent civil reprisals occur. “The brain behind the action was not clear until the deputy
governor invited representatives of Auchi Warrake and Ivbiaro to his office for
a meeting on February 10.” At the meeting, Muhammed said Shuaibu announced that
all Auchi farmland – Okwilokpa, Osa, Oqwaogbodo, Ogbokpo, Okolufio where the
cassava project is currently going on had been ceded to Warrake while
Oghodighie now belong to Iyaro community. He noted that the deputy governor announced that a new map
“has been drawn which will be made available soon and
that a technical committee set up by him will soon come and erect bacons along
river Oile in Auchi as the new boundary. “Shaibu announced that the current cassava project going on
the site already paid for by the Edo State Government should stop and the
contractors Ezo Nigeria Ltd should move their equipment out of
the site and all Auchi farmers to stop all their farming activities on their
traditional farmland. “While the people of Auchi are patiently waiting for the
Philip Shaibu new map and technical committee to come and erect boundary bacons
at river Oile as the new boundary, it should be noted that any conflict replica
of Ife/Modakeke and Uzanu/Ogbona civil unrest was caused by Shaibu against
Auchi. “Any attempt to change old boundaries fixed by a tribe, a
people, a nation is an invitation to mayhem, clashes, chaos, internecine war
and therefore an infringement upon the people’s right under the UN charter on
fundamental human right of people and nation. “Any attempt to change the gazetted government white paper
of 1984 on demarcation of boundaries between communities of Etsako Local
Government (as it then was) is an invitation to civil unrest. “It will be mischievous for the deputy governor who is a
neophyte in his traditional/political history of his people to attempt to
redraw the political geography of his people. “The public, federal government and
stakeholders should be aware of dry tinder box about to be set ablaze
by greedy and ambitious politicians,” the chairman explained. When contacted however, Chief Press Secretary to the deputy
governor, Mr. Musa Ebomhiana said: “We shall respond to all your enquiries
tomorrow and give you the official position of the state government
on the matter.