Oluchi Chibuzor Teach for Nigeria (TFN) has reiterated its commitment to advancing educational equality in the country to ensure that all children are able to fulfill their potential, in line with the vision of the global movement of Teach for All Network. This according to the non-for-profit organisation, prompted the visit of members of the Teach for All Network’s Africa Region for its maiden advisory council meeting in Nigeria.
The event was aimed at creating awareness about the organisation’s efforts across the continent through its network of partners, focused on how to support and accelerate collective efforts and impact for education equity in Africa. The organisation also revealed its plans to scale ambitiously by recruiting an additional 400 fellows in its forthcoming recruitment phase which started on February 17, 2020.
Speaking in Abeokuta, Ogun State recently, the Chief Executive Officer, Teach for Nigeria, Folawe Omikunle, thanked partners and stakeholders for their commitment to support the vision of the organisation, stressing that “one day, every Nigerian child will have the opportunity to attain an excellent education. “We are gathered here to celebrate three years of growth and impact; to reflect on our journey, and how far we have come. Also, to appreciate every one of you who have played a big role in this journey.” Highlighting its achievements in three years, she explained that TFN has recruited and placed more than 250 outstanding leaders across 92 schools in three states, adding, “more importantly, these young Nigerians have impacted the lives of more than 12,000 pupils and their communities.” Commending the Ogun State government at a stakeholders’ meeting in Abeokuta, the Head of Region for Africa, Teach for All, Vongai Nyahunzi said: “You have shown leadership as the first state to partner with TFN to place fellows in your schools to teach. “You have also shown our network a model of what is possible through active stakeholders’ partnerships. We are learning a lot from you and appreciate your support in the last three years.” TFN is a non-profit organisation that focuses on improving educational equity in Nigeria by recruiting, training and placing outstanding graduates to teach in underserved schools for two years, and invest in their long-term leadership capabilities to be a force for expanding opportunity for children beyond their two years fellowship. Recognising the contribution of past fellows to the success of the programme in Nigeria, the organisation rewarded Gobi Daniel, a 2018 fellow teaching in L.G.E.A. Sheik Gumi Model Primary School, Tudun Wada, Kaduna State, with Fellow of the Year award, and Henry Anumudu, a member of the first cohort of alumni, with Alumni of the Year award.