 •Pressure
on next-in-line to move to Supreme Court Alex
Enumah in Abuja and Kemi
Olaitan in Ibadan As the President of the Court
of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, retires on March 6 when she attains the
mandatory retirement age of 70 years, there have been behind-the-scene
manoeuvres by certain forces both within and outside the National Judicial
Council (NJC) to influence the choice of her replacement, THISDAY’s
investigation has revealed. THISDAY gathered that though
it is a tradition for the next most senior justice in the Court of Appeal to be
appointed as president once there is a vacancy, there are attempts to stop
another female judge, Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem, who is next to Bulkachuwa
in hierarchy, from succeeding her as the president of the appellate court. Justice Dongban-Mensem,
daughter of a retired Court of Appeal judge, Justice M. B. Douglas-Mensem, is
from the Shendam Local Government Area of Plateau State and current presiding
justice of the Court of Appeal, Jos Division. THISDAY learnt that there
were pressures on Justice Dongban-Mensen to agree to be elevated to the Supreme
Court so as to pave the way for Justice Mohammed Lawal Garba, who is the next
to her in seniority, to succeed Justice Bulkachuwa. Justice Garba, who is the
presiding justice of the Lagos Division of the Court of Appeal, was the
presiding judge of the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal for the 2019
election. The tribunal upheld the
election of President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 presidential poll, which was
also upheld by the Supreme Court. On her part, Dongban-Mensem,
in 2015, headed a five-man appeal panel that upheld the ruling of the
governorship election petition tribunal in Rivers State, which sacked Governor
Nyesom Wike and ordered a rerun within 90 days. The verdict was, however,
upturned by the apex court. A source privy to the
intrigues told THISDAY that when Justice Donghan-Mensen was consulted that she
would be nominated for elevation to the Supreme Court, she declined the offer. The source said she was
consulted to avoid a repeat of the crisis that occurred when a former President
of the Court of Appeal, Justice Ayo Salami, declined his nomination to the
Supreme Court after his name had been sent to the National Judicial Council (NJC)
without his knowledge. It was learnt that the
pressures were so much on her that those close to her were also contacted to
prevail on her to accept the elevation, all to no avail. The source said it took the
intervention of a high-ranking member of the NJC for those plotting to scheme
her out to back out of the plot. THISDAY gathered that the NJC
member who is from the South-west, pointedly told his colleagues behind the
plot that “since her Lordship has expressed her preference to be left alone at
the Court of Appeal, putting pressures on her to accept the nomination of
elevation to the Supreme Court is uncalled for.” “It took the
intervention of the senior member of the NJC for her to be left alone. Those
behind the scheming are out to ensure that a Northern Muslim succeeds Justice
Bulkachuwa as the President, Court of Appeal,” the source added. Section 238 of the
Constitution states that for a person to be appointed as the President of the
Court of Appeal,  the NJC must recommend
him or her to the President of the country for appointment. THISDAY gathered that though
the NJC members who wanted to stop Dongbam-Mensen may have given up, there are
still forces outside the NJC who have not given up. The spokesman of the NJC, Mr.
Soji Oye, however, told THISDAY that the process for the appointment of the
next President of the Court of Appeal has not started. Speaking to THISDAY on the
process for the appointment, a constitutional lawyer and Senior Advocate of
Nigeria (SAN), Mr. Sebastine Hon, said although it is traditional for the next
most senior justice in the Court of Appeal to be appointed as president, Buhari
could appoint any qualified person he so chooses. “Normally under the
constitution anybody who has practised law for the past 15 years is qualified
to be appointed a justice of the Court of Appeal and he also can be appointed
the president of the court of appeal. “In accordance with
tradition followed over time, the next most senior person is usually appointed
the president of the Court of Appeal,” he stated. According to him, it has
become a legal tradition to appoint the next in line to avoid friction and
ensure smooth working of the system. “There is also advantage
there because everybody who works as a justice of the Court of Appeal up to that
level and having acquired that experience expects to become the president
someday. “So it is only natural
and since it has been established as a practice or tradition.  I hope and prayed that the next most senior
person be made the president of the Court of Appeal. “The process commences
by the Federal Judicial Service Commission nominating and forwarding to the
National Judicial Council (NJC) a candidate for the post, then the NJC would
now recommend to the President of Nigeria for appointment. “It can be done within
two days, three days, one week but it is not late yet to do it”, he said. Another senior lawyer, Mr.
Ahmed Raji (SAN), noted that the shortlisted names by the Federal Judicial
Service Commission are first filtered by the NJC before they are sent to the
president who will now nominate for appointment and send to the Senate for
confirmation. “Once he is confirmed
that is it”, he said. On the powers of the
president to appoint, Raji stated that the president could appoint anyone
provided that the person meets the minimum requirement prescribed by the
constitution and is eligible. “The president can go to
the Supreme Court to second somebody because the President of the Court of
Appeal is on the same standing and status as a Supreme Court judge; they are at
the same par in hierarchy. So, if he has issue with them at the Court of
Appeal, somebody can come down from the Supreme Court. “But before the
appointment is made, if there is a vacancy, the president is obliged to appoint
the most senior of the justices to act pending the substantive appointment. “It is mandatory to
appoint the most senior person to act, but when it comes to the substantive
appointment, the president can choose anybody. He can pick from the academia;
he can pick from the Supreme Court; he can pick any other justice of the court
– the most senior does not necessarily have to have it. For example, if the
most senior is having just few months to reach retirement there is no point,
just bring somebody from below,” he said. Justice Dongbam -Mensem
received both her LL.B and LL.M degrees from the Ahmadu Bello University,
Zaria. She is an authority on
criminal and civil procedure law, taxation and international public finance,
public international law, legislative drafting, constitutional and
administrative law and international commercial transactions, according to her
website. She has a postgraduate
diploma from the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies, University of London,
Russel Square, London, and started as a registrar at the Plateau State High
Court in 1979 and later became a magistrate of various grades up to chief
magistrate between 1981 and 1990. Between 1990 and 1993, she served as deputy chief
registrar, superior courts and protocol affairs and was appointed judge, High
Court of Justice, Plateau State Judiciary from 1993 to 1996. On transfer from
the former, she became the judge, Federal Capital Territory judiciary from 1997
to 2003.