The leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mr. Nnamdi Kanu, has raised the alarm over alleged plan by the Nigerian Army in Abia State to raid hotels in Umuahia, the state capital ahead of his parents’ burial scheduled to hold on February 14. Kanu, who disclosed this on his twitter handle: @MaziNnamdiKanu, claimed that the army is already monitoring hotels in Umuahia with the intention of arresting top IPOB brass who are likely going to attend the parents’ funeral ceremony.  Kanu’s tweet reads: “@MaziNnamdiKanu “Be aware! We received information that the Nigerian Army will launch surprise searches in hotels around Umuahia axis, they monitor most hotels hoping that top #IPOB servants may come in early before the burial date. Stay safe and avoid being kidnapped. @AmnestyNigeria,@StateDept”  But a source at the Goodluck Jonathan’s Army Barracks, Ohafia who spoke anonymously debunked Nnamdi Kanu’s claims.  “It is a lie from the pit of hell. Why should we go after innocent people that lodged in hotel in the first place?  “Nnamdi Kanu is doing everything possible to paint the image of the Nigerian Army negatively before Nigerians and the international community.  “You are in this state and therefore should know well about the operations of the army. In security agencies, our jobs are shared and we know our bounds. If Kanu doesn’t know what to do, he should find something good to do.  “You are aware that his group has been declared as a terrorist group in Nigeria, but they have continued to go about causing panic in the state and the entire South-east.  “From what we have read from you guys (journalists), the people of Afaraukwu are willing and ready to give their late monarch and wife, a peaceful burial.  “But the IPOB has been doing over the week clearly show that IPOB has sinister motive ahead of the burial. But I can assure you that the security agencies in the state will not fold their arms to watch an outlawed group come here to foment trouble. “There is no need disclosing our strategy, but I can assure you that we have put things in place to ensure that Abia remains peaceful before, during and after the burial on Friday.