 Chivita Ice Tea, a product which
claims to offer consumers all the natural benefits of tea extracts, is an Ice
Tea brand in Nigeria that is produced in aseptic packaging, the manufacturers
have stated. The Aseptic packaging production
process is a specialised process in which food or other contents are processed
separately and filled into the aseptic container or pack in a sterile
environment that is safe and free of all harmful bacteria and free from human
intervention. According to a statement from the
company, this type of packaging allows the food and beverage products to be
transported over long distances, stored, and sold on shelves without
refrigeration, thereby enabling the product have a stable shelf life of between
6-18 months, depending on the product. “Thus, production in aseptic
packaging is an innovative technology in the food and beverage industry that
does not require the use of preservatives or additives to retain the product’s
natural benefits before consumption. “Preservatives and additives have
been commonly used in producing packaged foods and beverages to increase
shelf-life, and reduce the loss of taste or ingredients in the product before
consumption. Common preservatives used in food production include benzoates,
nitrites and sulphites. “Research studies have shown that
consumption of preservatives over a period of time could have negative effects
on human health. Preservative consumption could be a source of breathing
problems like asthma and bronchitis, and some have been known to weaken heart
cells, body tissues, and cause cancer,” the statement added. It pointed out that Nigerian
consumers were exposed to preservatives in some of the products they consume in
polyethylene terephthalate (PET), or plastic bottles. “Even beverages that are supposed
to be natural and beneficial for human health, have been known to contain
preservatives like Potassium Sorbate and Trisodium Citrate, which diminish some
of the benefits of the beverage and cause harm to the body. “For food products that
contain natural ingredients which promote the overall wellbeing of individuals,
inclusion of harmful preservatives in the foods or drinks could negate most, if
not all of the natural ingredients in the product. “With this fact in mind, we decided
to examine a few natural beverages sold in the Nigerian market. For this
report, we narrowed down to the Ice Tea category, and decided to focus our
analysis on Chivita Ice Tea, the first Ready-to-Drink (RTD) Ice Tea brand
produced by Chi Limited which was launched into Nigeria about a decade ago,” it
added. According to research, tea is the
most frequently consumed beverage in the world after water. On any given day,
more than half of the human population consumes tea in one form or another. Tea
keeps the body hydrated and also contains antioxidants, known to reverse the
signs of ageing, fight free radicals in the body, reduce stress, and enable aid
mental rejuvenation.