 #BankLoveChallenge, a survey by Ciuci Consulting on what
retail banking customers wanted from their financial institution in 2020 had
five Nigerian banks. The result of the challenge put GTBank, Zenith, Access,
First bank and the United Bank for Africa (UBA) at the top. According to a statement, the challenge was conducted to
discover the love-hate relationship between Nigerians and their banks. It revealed that GTBank, Zenith, Access, First Bank and
UBA polled 32.75 per cent, 12.71 per cent, 12.12 per cent, 9.97 per cent, and
7.14 per cent, respectively from respondents. The respondents mentioned convenience, reliability and
customer service as their reasons for having such strong feelings for these
five banks. “As much as Valentine’s Day is centred on love, there is
no denying the flipside such as heartbreaks, breakups, and relationships which
just did not work out, same go with banks and customers across the globe, hence
the need for this challenge. “With survey questions such as ‘who is the love of your
life?’ and ‘who is your crush?’ among the banks, the favourite banks of
respondents across all age groups were captured with the reasons and why they
melt their hearts and fill their tummies with butterflies,” it added. It stated that the survey which was conducted by Ciuci
Consulting in partnership with The Guardian, used a random sample of
1,023 respondents across Nigeria, respondents’ states reasons such as poor
customer service, inconvenience and unreliability for banks they will never go
back to. Others cited poor turnaround time as the reasons they would never use
some banks. “Although 264 respondents were satisfied with their
banking relationship, other respondents also had issues with the top five banks
noting that they may want to break up with them. As with love, a few
complications rose up in the relationships between banks and the respondents,
with some respondents having the love of their lives as the bank they want to
break up with and their worst ex. “Despite GTBank being the most loved bank, a common
complaint by respondents is that their branches are crowded and their ATMs not
enough. This has caused some respondents to consider a possible breakup with
the bank, as it has not adapted to its increasing number of customers. “Some respondents chose Access bank as the love of their
life, the bank they will never date and their worst ex, citing ‘misbehaviour’
from the bank after the merger with Diamond bank. “Some respondents closed their accounts with some banks
due to their inability to access loans, while documentation process and
requirements for account opening at a certain bank are considered too
stressful. Notably, respondents considered some banks as ‘ancient’ banks with
prolonged turnaround time. “It is the season of ‘shooting your shot’, Zenith bank,
GTBank, Standard Chartered, Access bank and First bank were chosen as the banks
admired by respondents even though they are no operational account with the
banks,” it added.