 Adibe Emenyonu in Benin-city The National President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev Peter Ayokunle, has called for unity among Christians amid unprecedented attacks from suspected terrorists, bandits and other violent crimes against Christians in Nigeria. He stated this in Benin-city, Edo State capital, when he supervised the conduct of elections into the state executive committee of the association which has been in crisis over the second term ambition of its Chairman, Bishop Oyonnude Kure. Represented by a National Director from the headquarters, Bishop Stephen Adegbite, who was accompanied by other national officers, including the South-South Chairman of the association, Archbishop Ige Israel, Ayokunle said Christians have no other option than to remain united just as he urged Kure to ensure his second term is more productive and that he closes ranks with his members and leaders. According to him,  “The body of Christ must remain one, as unity is not negotiable because God has been faithful. The leadership of CAN is always under threat but it must ensure unity because we have our members all over the country. We were going to Maiduguri last week with our president, but God designed it to save us. Our vehicle broke down on the road and we have to take three taxis to our destination, on the process, they (terrorists) laid ambush expecting to see CAN vehicle and then attack it, only for them to hear that we have arrived our destination. They killed 31 people that night for missing their target with our president on board the vehicle. So what else do we need than to remain united and work together?” On his part, the South-south Chairman, Israel urged Kure to see his re-election as the will of God, adding: “What I see here is that your people want to be carried along in all that they do; there must be continuous communication because it seemed there is no communication between you and them. You must always reach out to all the blocs through their leaders.” Kure and his executive committee narrowly won by one vote to go for a second term. He scored 27 votes to against his opponent 26 who did not want him to continue for a second term.