 Tobi
Soniyi The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand
Alliance (APGA) in Zamfara State, Alhaji Sani Shinkafi has written to the
embassies of the United States of America (USA) the United Kingdom (UK) and the
European Union asking them to revoke the visa of the former governor of Zamfara
State for allegedly sponsoring militia groups. In the letter which was also copied to the embassies of
Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates Shinkafi alleged that Yari had been
stoking the embers of violence and inciting his supporters to violence all
aimed at destabilizing the new administration in the state. The letter reads: ”I am writing to demand for the
prudential revocation visa of the former Governor of Zamfara State, Alhaji
Abdulaziz Yari for stoking the embers of violence in the state.” He had earlier called on the Inspector General of Police to
arrest and prosecute a former governor of the state Abdulaziz
Yari for making statement capable of disrupting the fragile peace in Zamfara. In the letter to the IGP ,which was also copied to the Chief of
Army Staff, the Chief of Air Staff, the Chief of Naval Staff, the Director
General of the State Security Services (SSS) and the Office of the National
Security Adviser to the President, Shinkafi said Yari should not be
allowed to frustrate the efforts being made by the state governor Bello
Matawalle to ensure peace reign in Zamfara. He said: “Following the unguarded and
provocative statements made by the former governor of Zamfara State, Alhaji
Abdulaziz Yari wherein he was heard inciting members of his faction of the All
Progressives Congress (APC) to move against the state government. I hereby demand the immediate arrest and prosecution of
Yari for disobeying the subsisting order of the security agencies banning any
forms of public gatherings, political parties meetings and associations,
rallies, across the state.” The APGA chieftain 
reminded the security chiefs that a few years ago the state witnessed
series of crimes and unrests including abduction, torture and killing of
innocent citizens in the markets, streets with bodies lying on the streets and
nobody could stop the jungle justice that went on in the whole of Zamfara State
during the tenure of the immediate past administration. He warned that there was an urgent need to make
sure the state did not fall back to that era of lawlessness. According to him, Yari has been seen publicly calling on
his factional APC members not to recognize the administration of His Excellency
Bello Muhammad Matawalle as the executive governor of Zamfara State but to see
him as a sole administrator. He said: “Time without number he has rejected the 24th May
2019 judgement of the Supreme Court of Nigeria painting the eminent jurists of
the apex court with all kinds of names.” He alleged without proof that Yari was
planning to disrupt the peace accord in the state. Shinkafi stated that under the Nigerian constitution and
the concept of rule of law, no one is above the law
warning that Yari should not be allowed to be above the law.