By Sunday Ehigiator The Ikorodu Division of the Lagos State Police Command has arrested one Ganiu Solomon suspected to be a serial burglar in Ikorodu area of the state. The 37 years old who was arrested on February 21, according to a statement signed by the state police spokesperson, DSP Bala Elkana, came after series of complaints of break-in incidents received from residents of the area by the police. According to him, “On February 21, 2020, at about 1p.m., detectives from Ikorodu Police Station arrested a serial burglar, one Ganiu Solomon, 37, of No. 5 Okuku Street. Ota-Ono Ikorodu. “He was arrested in connection with series of complaints received from residents of Ota Ono area in Ikorodu on burglary and stealing. All the complaints received indicated the same modus operandi, suggesting the fact that the crime is perpetrated by the same syndicate. “One of such cases was reported on November 4, 2019, at about 6:33 p.m. by one Nkiruka Ezeokobe of Mojisola Sari Street Ota-Ono, Ikorodu. “The suspects mostly break into residential buildings when the occupants are away or must have slept. They passed through the ceiling and windows-removing the burglary proof on the windows. Items recovered from the suspect included one Samsung phone valued at N235,000, one gold necklace valued at N150,000 among others, as well as the tools they use in burgling houses. “They are part of the items stolen from Nkiruka. The suspect confessed to the commission of the crime. Investigation is ongoing, and efforts are being intensified to arrest other members of his gang.” In another development, 17 suspects have been arrested by the police operatives from Ijora Badia Police Station on offences bothering on cult rivalry and possession of dangerous weapons. Elkana revealed that the gang members, who were arrested on February 21, did not only engage in cultism and cult rivalry, but also inflicted various degrees of injuries on one another other. “On February 21 at about 2:20p.m., Ijora Badia Police Station received a distress call that two rival cult groups armed with cutlasses and other dangerous weapons, engaged themselves in a battle for supremacy at Iso Isu area of Ijora Badia and inflicted various degrees of injuries on themselves. “Police operatives from Ijora Badia Division and Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants from the Command headquarters in Ikeja were mobilised to the area. Five suspects were arrested. “The suspects are Olaniyi Abiodun, 21; Emola Kamal, 20; Muritala Gbadeyanka, 18; Kadiri Bashorun, 28, and Adebayo Ebiesuwa, 25. They belong to Aye and Eiye confraternities. “In a related development, on February 23, at about 11a.m., the Ikorodu Police Station received an information that members of Aye and Eiye confraternities attacked one another at Ladega area of Ikorodu and one Lateef Ganiyu Akinpelu a.k.a Eti, 24, was seriously injured. Investigation is ongoing, the suspects will soon be charged to court,” he stated.