By Emma Okonji Interswitch Limited at the weekend announced its partnership with American Express (AmEx), to expand the usage and acceptance of American Express Cards across Nigeria for online transactions. The partnership with Interswitch would enable American Express Card members to transact, using a wide range of merchants, who process payments through the Interswitch platform, for a range of travel, retail, hospitality and dining expenses, as well as ATM withdrawals. The partnership will also allow Interswitch to integrate its network of merchants in Nigeria into the global American Express network. As part of the agreement, Interswitch would assume responsibility for managing American Express merchants in Nigeria, while bringing new merchants onto its platform. Previously, American Express Card members could only use their cards at select locations across the country. This new partnership broadens that acceptance to Interswitch merchants, ATMs and websites nationwide. Announcing the partnership, Divisional Chief Executive Officer for Payment Processing at Interswitch, Akeem Lawal, said: “AmEx and Interswitch are aligned in our desire to provide fast and secure payment solutions and transactions across Nigeria. With this new partnership, we are improving AmEx Cardmember access to a convenient and secure network, which also benefits our merchants who will gain new opportunities presented by an expanded user base. “By remaining card scheme neutral, Interswitch will continue to explore innovative partnerships that will benefit consumers and retailers alike.” Lawal, also reiterated the commitment of Interswitch to reliably cater to its valued merchants, to reinforce the company’s mantra of ‘Transaction solutions you can depend on’. He recommended new merchants to join the Interswitch platform, highlighting that the addition of American Express cards can help to expand their businesses. Vice President and General Manager, Global Network Partnerships in charge of Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) for American Express, Vivi Galani, said the new partnership reinforced American Express’s role as a leading global network. She said: “We are excited to be partnering with Interswitch, a well-respected pan-African financial technology company, to continue to grow our presence in Nigeria. As we partner with leading banks and financial institutions around the world, we are bringing the powerful backing of the American Express network to Cardmembers and merchants by expanding acceptance of our Cards.”