 Emma Okonji The President of Medallion Communications Limited, Mr. Ikechukwu
Nnamani, has commended the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr.
Isa Pantami, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and the National
Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) for their efforts in building
a digital economy in the country. Nnamani, who is also the First Vice President of the Association
of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) said the Ministry and the
telecoms regulator were on the path to driving economic growth through their
initiatives aimed at digital transformation. Specifically, he said the federal government’s commitment to the
implementation of the national digital economy strategy would help the country
achieve growth and development. According to him, with the support of the NCC, NITDA and other
government agencies in the implementation of the digital policy, Nigeria’s
economy would in the next few years take a new shape. Nnamani said ATCON as a body had also keyed into the digital
agenda, hence, its plan to deepen discussions on the matter through the
forthcoming national dialogue on ICT. The event scheduled to hold next months
in Abuja, is targeted at changing the narrative of the country’s development
through the optimal utilisation of digital resources and to achieve this,
Nnamani said State Governors, Ministries, Agencies and Sectors like
Agriculture, Education, Oil and Gas, Health, Industry, Trade and Investment,
Security and Defence have been invited along with telecom and ICT companies. He added that the strategic dialogue plans to bring together the
Presidency, National Assembly, relevant Federal Ministries, State Governors,
ICT State Commissioners, Telecom and ICT Operating Companies, World Bank and
other international relevant agencies. According to him, “the strategic
objectives of the proposed National Dialogue are to channel collaborative
efforts toward Nigerian Digital Economy with the sole aim of accelerating our
economy’s performance in relation to other leading African countries and
to serve as a forum to discuss the recently launched documents on Digital
Economy and take stakeholders input for implementation.