 Better late than never, the saying goes. It may have
taken several months but finally, President Muhammadu Buhari has suspended with
immediate effect, the Director-General, National Broadcasting Commission (NBC),
Modibbo Kawu. Remember Kawu had been recommended for suspension
September last year after months of investigation by the Independent Corrupt
Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) over corruption and
intent to defraud the federal government. However Kawu did not only retain his seat, but exacted
revenge, not least against his deputy and other staff of NBC who dared to
testify against him in court. Following the indefinite suspension given to
former Director General, by the President, his deputy, Prof. Armstrong Idachaba
whom he redeployed and effectively demoted has been  directed to take over  as the most senior director of the
commission, who is In a letter signed by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Information and Culture, Deaconess Grace Isu Gekpe.  Prof. Idacahaba was asked to oversee the
operations of the commission, pending when a substantial Director General would
be appointed It went against the ethics of justice that Kawu would
sit atop the affairs of the NBC while he facing trial for criminal wrong doing.
However, he has now been sent packing. The ICPC on May 2, 2019 arraigned Kawu and two others,
Dipo Onifade and Lucky Omoluwa, over alleged N2.5 billion fraud. The trio, who
are being prosecuted on 12-count charges, allegedly conspired with each other
to use the position of Kawu to confer a corrupt advantage on Omoluwa, his
friend and associate. Kawu allegedly asked Minister of Information, Lai
Mohammed, to approve payment of N2.5 billion to Pinnacle Communications Ltd
owned by Omoluwa as “Seed Grant” under the Digital Switch-Over Programme of the
federal government. Mohammed had told anti-graft investigators that he
approved the payment based on expert advice he received from the NBC. The
anti-graft agency charged Kawu for allegedly “deceiving” Mohammed to sign the
deal. Kawu should
face his trial squarely and prove his innocence, until then he should swallow
the bitter pill of suspension, which turns out to be worse than what he meted
out to his deputy and others.