The balance of power in Bayelsa has shifted yet again
after the Supreme Court Judgment invalidating the qualification of the APC
governor-elect, David Lyon, in last November’s Bayelsa governorship poll,
writes Emmanuel Addeh On Thursday, Nigeria’s Apex Court unanimously held that Mr. David Lyon and his deputy, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo were not qualified ab initio to be declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as governor-elect of Bayelsa and deputy respectively. It effectively changed the
Bayelsa political trajectory overnight and automatically rejigged the
short-lived existing power equation in the state in which the trio of former
President Goodluck Jonathan, Mr. Timipre Sylva and Timi Alaibe as well as a
handful of others would have re-emerged the new power brokers. The court judgment, also,
literally raised from the dead, the seeming impending political sabbatical of
the former governor, Seriake Dickson, whose alleged ambition to control all the
levers of power in the state without consideration for the other elitist
politicians and leaders led to the defeat of his party in the first place. It appeared the erstwhile
governor was finished politically. He had been somewhat alienated by his own
party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), for the same reason that he wasn’t
amenable to taking advice or directives in some cases. His fellow governors, quite a
number of them, including the very vocal Governor Nyesom Wike of neighbouring
Rivers State, were also not in good terms with him. This discordance with his
colleagues was palpable in no less an event than the official election
(selection) of Dickson’s successor as the Chairman of the PDP Governors Forum,
last month. In a dramatic event in Abuja
while his term hadn’t expired, his colleague governors simply went behind him
to conduct the election of his successor in which the person handing over was
absent. It wasn’t only disrespectful; it was a sign that all wasn’t well with
the party. Sokoto Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, emerged his successor during that
event. Back to the politics of Bayelsa,
all the signs were there that Jonathan, Alaibe and a host of other disgruntled
leaders were angry with Dickson. In Ogbia, where Jonathan hails from, the APC
routed Dickson’s PDP during the poll. Dickson’s strongmen in the area
were either rounded up on the day of the election or put in one form of
detention or the other, effectively rendering them ineffective. A day later, the winner of that
election, Lyon was in Jonathan’s house with his godfather and former
President’s erstwhile political enemy, Timipre Sylva, ostensibly to thank him
for the role he played during the poll. Soon after, the full APC team was
at the former President’s abode as early as 8am to join him in marking his
birthday. Not many had any doubts that indeed, just like his mother, who had
earlier endorsed the APC candidate then, the former Nigerian leader had given
his nod to APC’s Lyon in the run-up to the poll. As for Alaibe, who is from the
same local government with Diri, who was sworn in in Friday as the fifth
governor of Bayelsa, it was obvious that his supporters had massively voted the
APC candidate. The APC got more than half of the votes, garnering 8,934 to the
PDP candidate’s 15, 360. In his usual manner, the ex-President
allowed his body language to speak for him. In a statement by the Chairman,
Chief Benson Odoko, the PDP Elders Forum accused Jonathan of using the Bayelsa
poll to negotiate with President Muhammadu Buhari, saying Jonathan kept his
distance from the PDP and its members throughout the period of the campaigns
leading to the election. “The forum was shocked when
Jonathan and his wife donated the Aridolf Hotel to the APC as the operational
contact point for visiting dignitaries of the party and as the venue for the
party’s controversial primaries. “These actions of Jonathan
clearly portray him as a betrayer of the PDP, which gave him the platform to
occupy the highest positions in the country, Bayelsa State, and millions of the
PDP members just to protect his selfish interest.” He said. Though clearly partisan, Odoko
was probably right about the Aridolf issue. Many APC stalwarts were lodged
there while the final result was announced at the same hotel owned by the wife
of the President, Patience. Was the hotel only doing business? Perhaps! Dissociating Jonathan and his
family, who felt ignored by Dickson from Lyon’s short-lived victory would be an
uphill talk. The justification for their action and decision to teach Dickson a
lesson, as it were, is also in the public sphere. Dickson had allegedly
declined to incorporate their views and input in the build-up to the poll. In the meantime, Thursday’s
judgment came as a shock to the APC and the governor-in-waiting, Lyon, whose
qualification for the election was invalidated by the Supreme Court. Like the biblical Moses, who saw
but never stepped his foot on the promised land, news of the apex court’s
decision effectively put a halt to the rehearsal for the planned swearing-in,
in which Lyon along with some security personnel and a retinue of aides were
participating at the Samson Siasia Stadium in Yenagoa, when the information
filtered in. The PDP flags in front of the
Creek House, Bayelsa’s seat of power, had also been replaced by a slew of APC
banners and the stage set for the planned inauguration of Lyon before the news
of the disqualification came. However, it was an instant burst
of jubilation at the Government House as the party’s supporters trooped to the
seat of power at Onopa, to celebrate with Governor Dickson, who was having a
session with his cabinet at the Exco Chambers inside the Government House. The governor, who was already
preparing for a reception at his hometown, Toru-Orua, Sagbama local government,
stayed back at the Government House to receive jubilant visitors. At his official residence, the
doors were thrown open for the huge crowd, while the usual security checks were
relaxed with an elated governor mixing freely with everyone around. It was also a mishmash of
emotions as expectant APC supporters and loyalists of Lyon were seen still in
shock while discussing the ‘unfairness’ of the Supreme Court decision, while
the PDP faithful erupted in celebration. A five-man panel of the apex
court presided by Justice Mary Peter-Odili nullified the election of Lyon on
the grounds that his deputy, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo presented false
information to INEC in aid of his qualification for the November 16
governorship election in Bayelsa State. The apex court in the judgment
delivered by Justice Ejembi Eko consequently ordered the Independent National
Electoral Commission INEC to withdraw the certificate of Return issued to Lyon
and Degi-Eremienyo. Justice Eko also ordered that
INEC immediately declare the party with the highest number of lawful votes and
geographical spread. In a twinkle of an eye, Diri, nay, Dickson’s fortunes had
changed. Now, it appears the original plan, which was for the now former
governor to go to the senate before the November 16 debacle will materialise. Diri, who hails from
Kolokuma/Opokuma and his deputy, Ehrudjakpor from Dickson’s Sagbama, Bayelsa
West, both serving senators will have to leave the senate to give the chance
for a new set of elections. If Dickson contests, which he is
likely to, the former governor who has a stronghold there in his senatorial
zone, will likely emerge victorious in a free and fair poll. His main
challenger in that area would have been Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, who has
been alienated by the APC for taking Lyon to court after raising concerns about
the primaries. Whether the national leadership
of the PDP with which Dickson seems to have fallen out will favour him with the
party’s ticket remains to be seen. Bayelsa Central is however open. The third senatorial District,
Bayelsa East may also be up for grabs if like in the governorship, the PDP is
able to prove that the APC’s erstwhile deputy governor-elect, Degi-Eremienyo,
used contentious academic qualifications for that election. Now that the Dickson, Diri duo
has been restored to the highest level of power wielders in Bayelsa, where does
it leave those who were either indifferent or worked assiduously against them?
Nothing unprecedented. Diri, the new governor is likely to toe the path of
peace. Indeed, he has started on that
note. Immediately after he was issued the certificate of return on Friday,
Jonathan’s house was his first port of call. They were seen in several pictures
flashing smiles. After all, none of those, who expressed anger against Dickson,
mentioned that Diri had done them evil. Diri has promised to follow-up on
his plan to run an all-inclusive government. “I have been sworn in today as
your new governor. My advice is that we have to be magnanimous in victory. “We have to forget the
bitterness, and the acrimony, because if we kill ourselves, who are we going to
lead? Of course, we are not going to lead animals. “I, therefore, bring to you a
message of love, hope and prosperity for Bayelsa. Let us eschew all the
bitterness and acrimony and learn to love ourselves irrespective of political
parties”, he said. Also in an unexpected move,
Jonathan felicitated with the new governor, stressing that he was hopeful that
Diri would deliver, having been his aide in the past. “I congratulate His Excellency,
Senator Douye Diri, who was sworn in today as the 5th Civilian Governor of
Bayelsa State, in compliance with the Supreme court verdict of yesterday, 13th
February 2020. “As Governor, the responsibility
of building hope and sustaining peace across the state now lies on your
shoulders. I urge you to always bear in mind that you are the Governor of all
Bayelsans and to seize this moment of glory to build bridges of unity by
entrenching a culture of love, fairness and justice in our polity. “Your journey to Creek Haven is a
divine one, so, I advise you to use the position to do good to humanity and
pursue the development of the state in order to write your name in gold.  “You have worked with me before as a
commissioner, so I am without doubt that you will live up to the expectations
of our people. I call on all Bayelsans to be law-abiding, peaceful and embrace
this transition in all sincerity, and work together towards a united and
prosperous state,” he said. But will Dickson remain his brash
self? Some lessons in politics are simply humbling. In the last couple of
months, he has seen how the mighty could easily become irrelevant in a moment
of political misfire. He, too, has promised changes. “No one should have any fear, no
victimisation. It’s all forgiveness and reconciliation. Even when we had
issues, we called for restraint and let’s ensure that nobody takes the laws
into their hands. We prevented bloodshed and crisis even when 21 persons were
killed in Nembe. “I urge the leaders to keep the
peace for the sake of our state. I am aware that people have concerns and some
people are angry. I will continue to call for calm and I urge all political
leaders to do so. Disagreements are normal. We need to show understanding,” he
said. But not a few persons still
believed that despite all that has happened, Dickson, who was accused of
alienating all the power centres in Bayelsa and was opposed by very important
stakeholders, has many battles ahead. It is believed that if he will
succeed, Diri would have to learn quickly from his mistakes and avoid Dickson’s
human and political frailties. He will need to move swiftly to
reconcile all disgruntled stakeholders, including Alaibe, whose case against
Diri at the primaries is still a subject of dispute at a Federal High Court. Risking another electoral war
with the allied forces, which conspired to defeat him, albeit temporarily, in
last year’s governorship poll would come at a high political cost for Diri. He probably knows this. Reason he has started already to extend the olive
branch to the aggrieved stakeholders. But for how long he can sustain this
remains to be seen.