by Sola Akinyede  With the nullification of the election of the erstwhile
Governor-elect of Bayelsa State, David Lyon by the Supreme Court, as expected,
the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is jubilant while the All Progressives
Congress (APC) is melancholic. While it is not yet clear whether the nullification was on account
of possession of multiple identities or forgery, it is good to pause
irrespective of party affiliation and ask if it was the right decision and
whether the decision was or is in the interest of our democracy. In doing so, I
believe that the first question we should ask ourselves is “What is the purpose
of elections”? I believe that the purpose of elections in a democracy is for
citizens to elect persons of their choice to govern them. All laws, rules and
regulations regarding elections should be interpreted with this core purpose
mind. Section 182(1) j of the Nigerian Constitution provides that no
person shall be qualified for election to the office of Governor if he has
presented a forged certificate to the Independent National Electoral Commission
(INEC). As it is not uncommon for politicians to procure fake NYSC, tax
clearance and educational certificates, the provision is necessary and salutary
as persons of questionable character and integrity should not be allowed to
operate in our political space. The language of the section is very clear and
unambiguous. It is the person that presents a forged certificate that is
disqualified. However, the Supreme Court held that even though Lyon did not
present a forged certificate, he is disqualified because his running mate
Degi-Eremienyo did, as their ticket is a joint one which had become “vitiated.”
Is this fair to Lyon, his party the APC and most especially the thousands that
trouped out to vote for him on election day? The Supreme Court failed to give Section 182(1) j its simple and
natural meaning, and give effect to the core purpose of elections-allowing the
will of the people of Balyesa to prevail by not only disqualifying the person
whom they held presented a forged certificate but by disqualifying the
governor-elect who did not. The argument that because the ticket is a joint one
that had become vitiated, is not only contrary to the simple meaning of section
182(1) j, but is a technical argument that violates the will of the Bayelsa
people. The basis of our political and electoral system in Nigeria is that
the vote is for the political party and not for the individual. This is
confirmed by section 177 (c) of the Constitution which states that a person
shall be qualified for election to the office of Governor of a State if he is a
member of a political party and he is sponsored by that political party. This
is further confirmed by the fact that on election day, what is on the ballot
paper is not the picture or name of the candidate but the logo of the political
party. It is significant that the provision that a governorship candidate is to
contest with a running mate is not in this qualification section of the
Constitution which only refers to nationality, age, political party membership
and minimum level of education. Section 187 (1) relating to the Deputy-Governor
simply enjoins a governorship candidate to nominate a deputy as his associate which
David Lyon did and his associate’s nomination remained valid during and after
the election until it was nullified by the Supreme Court. By virtue of our Constitution, it was APC that was voted for in
Bayelsa. If the deputy-governor-elect was disqualified, the governor–elect who
was unblemished should have been left alone to nominate another deputy. The
argument that whatever affects the running mate affects the governorship
candidate is not supported by the Constitution and indeed is contrary to the spirit
of the provisions of section 181(1) of the Constitution which states that where
the Governor-elect is for ANY REASON UNABLE TO BE SWORN IN, his Deputy shall be
sworn in. It is submitted that “for any reason” includes disqualification.
Furthermore, neither the governor-elect nor his party are forensic experts. If
INEC the body charged with the responsibility of conducting elections and
verifying certificates is not expert enough, or does not have access to the
infrastructure to verify the authenticity of certificates, why should Lyon or
his party suffer the consequences? At its level, the Supreme Court should not
interpret the law in a way that defeats the purpose of an election, it should
do justice to the parties and give effect to the will of the people during an
election rather than employing technicalities that defeat that will. To do so
is not only unfair and unjust, but is disruptive as a curfew has had to be
declared in Bayelsa with soldiers now out in the streets. Such decisions by the Supreme Court in the Imo governorship
election, and now in Bayelsa affect the perception and confidence of people in
our justice system not just in Nigeria but internationally with potentially
serious consequences for our country. A few months ago, Nigerians were aghast and angry to learn that a UK
court had awarded damages in the sum of $9.6 billion amounting to 20% of our
foreign reserves against us to a small Irish private company-P & ID.
P&ID could not have happened but for Clause 20 in the contract with Nigeria
which provided that the disputes were to be resolved in London rather than in
Nigeria where the subject matter of the contract was located. Such clauses
which have virtually become standard in international contracts signed by
Nigeria and Nigerians is a reflection of the lack of confidence in our justice
system. Although the justice systems in the developed countries work, they are
not without their biases. As the National Assembly prepares to amend the Constitution, it
should take a second look not just at section 182(1) j, but the whole
Constitution with a view to inserting an emphatic general proviso to the effect
that where a person is disqualified as a result of non-compliance with certain
provisions of the Constitution, a person who is not guilty of non-compliance
shall not be affected by the disqualification. With such a proviso, where the
deputy-governor–elect is disqualified, the governor–elect will nominate another
deputy, and where the governor-elect is disqualified, the deputy –governor
elect becomes the governor. This will be in consonance with section 181(1) of the Constitution
which provides that if a person elected as governor dies before taking his oath
of office, or is unable FOR ANY REASON WHATSOEVER TO BE SWORN IN, the person
elected with him as deputy- governor shall be sworn in as governor and he shall
nominate a new deputy-governor who shall be appointed by the governor with the
approval of a simple majority of the House of Assembly in the state. In the spirit of this section, the Supreme Court should simply have
ordered that David Lyon be sworn in and allowed to nominate a new deputy
subject to the approval of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly. •Senator Akinyede, a constitutional lawyer, was in the Senate from
2007 to 2011