 Anietie
John Ukpe The murky waters of politics?” This rhetorical question summed up Elder Gabriel Emmanuel Nkanang’s laconic response in 2013 to the information that there were plans for his son, Udom, to be appointed the Secretary to the Akwa Ibom State Government. A few years earlier, he had undertaken the painful duty of the internment of his beloved wife and the void created by her departure was still palpable. Then came the concerning news that his son was about to take a dip in what he considered to be murky waters. Politics was not his forte, as a matter of fact he  had grown to frown at it. Even more bothersome, his son stepping into politics meant stepping away from the comfort and security of his blue chip job as an Executive Director of Zenith Bank. A job which, by his estimation, did not pose as many challenges and vicissitudes as the one he was about to step into. In
retirement, God had blessed Nkanang with the fulfilling spectacle of watching
his six children (four sons and two daughters) blossom like trees planted by
the riverside. Even more pleasing to him was that they were flying the family
banner of integrity and honor in their different careers and people spoke well
of them. A man who gave his life, spirit and heart to teaching and to serving
God, Teacher Nkanang believed that God had justified the scripture that the
children of the righteous cannot beg for bread in his family situation. It was
in consideration of this righteous heritage that he thought that stepping into
the turbulent waters of politics was antithetical to the basic precepts and
values of the family he had nurtured in righteousness as the patriarch. Elder
Nkanang, who passed on in December, 2019 at the ripe age of 90, need not have
been worried. His son resolved his fears by explaining and promising him that
he would maintain the family honour in his work as the Secretary to the State
Government and in politics. He informed the septuagenarian that if the need
were to arise, he would quit politics and return to his first love – banking.
Udom Gabriel Emmanuel would go ahead to acquit himself creditably as the
Secretary to the State Government and, thereafter, got elected the Governor of
Akwa Ibom State. Elder Nkanang lived long enough to have his initial fears
supplanted by pride in his son’s sterling performance as a governor. What
was his reaction when his son was elected governor in 2015? Ekerete Emmanuel,
his fourth son and immediate younger brother of Udom, broke the news of Udom’s
election to Elder Nkanang: “You are the proud father of the Governor of Akwa
Ibom State!” Nkanang did not betray the kind of excitement you would expect of
a father receiving such great news. He smiled and said that he had brought up
his children to be leaders and he was not too surprised. He said there was a
leadership gene passed on to his children from his bosom noting that in his
life he was always sought after to lead and he expected his children to lead
and lead so well that God will be glorified and man would be satisfied. Nkanang
turned the last page of his storied life of service to mankind by asking to be
dressed up in his best cloth at bedtime. He did not wake up the next morning –
or to adjust that slightly, he woke up on the other side of eternity. It was a
surprise that he did not opt for his usual pajamas that fateful night. It appears
that he dressed up to breath his last and make it easier for his remains to be
handled. Taken holistically, Nkanang was a man who paid great attention to
detail in his life – and he appeared to have also paid great attention to
detail in his death. “He would  record
the mileage of his motorcycle when leaving the house,” Gabriel, his first son,
explained. So tucking himself into this best wear before embarking on an
eternal journey to meet his Creator followed the pattern. Nkanang
was born on Monday, May 27, 1929, into a very pious Christian family. Six
months after his birth, Nigeria suffered a national calamity when women in the
eastern part of the country rose up in arms against the unfair Indirect Tax
imposed by the British Colonial Administration. The uprising which is
christened in history books as “the Aba Women Riot” claimed the lives of not
less than 50 unarmed, hapless women. It actually occurred in the part of the
world where Nkanang was born. As he woke up to his world, the rumbles of war
shook the entire world as Hitler’s Germany began the preparation for another
World War. When he was ten years old, the Second World War began in Europe and
Nigeria joined the war on the side of the British Empire. But the strong
Christian values of his family insulated him from the effects of war and crisis
and he would remain a man of peace for the rest of his life. Not even the
Nigerian Civil War which happened when he was in his 30’s could derail his
peaceful disposition. A
brilliant student, he was offered instant employment as an auxiliary teacher
after his Standard Six Examination. He set his sights on more academic
accomplishments and obtained the Royals Society of Arts certificate.  He gained admission to the institution which
later became the University of Ibadan but lost his father the same year. A man
who placed family before all else he 
sacrificed the admission for his family and, as the first born, stepped
into the role of a father. Teaching
was not just work for him, it was a calling. He went out of his way to bring
wayward children to his home and turn their lives around with prayers,
instruction and counsel. “We used to have a lot of people in our house, it was
more like a correctional centre. At a point we used to have about eight
additional children in our house,” Gabriel, the first son, recalls. The
most dreaded school subject in those days was the almighty mathematics. But
Nkanang had a way of teaching mathematics which simplified it and won it a lot
of fans. “When my father teaches you mathematics, you cannot fail to like it,”
Sylvia, his first daughter, enthuses. Others like Ekerete Udoh, the Chief Press
Secretary to the Governor, and Aniefiok Udonquak, confirm how Teacher Nkanang’s
approach to mathematics and his love for his pupils impacted on their lives.
They described him as a quintessential teacher who was an inspiration to all
his pupils. Udoh recalls how he used to insist that all pupils should come to
the school assembly every morning prepared to share at short notice. “It kept
us on our toes and he even asked me to share once and though I almost pissed in
my pants, I ended up doing a pretty good job,” Udoh says with a laugh. Teacher
Nkanang was also a missionary, who went about establishing churches and schools
all over the country. Where it became imperative, he would sponsor and support
the missions he had established. He had an obsession with bringing education to
everyone. Confronted with a geographical barrier at Nkan Ide and Ikot Idem Udo
communities where a stream separated the two communities, he single-handedly
constructed a make-shift bridge so that children would not have any reason not
to go to school. Teacher
and Elder Nkanang who now belongs to folklores, fables and legends exchanged
banters and pleasantries with everyone and went to bed with a smile. Like the
American musician and songwriter, Jordan Smith, says, “When you were born, you
were crying and  everyone around you was
smiling. Live your life so that when you die, you’re the one who is smiling and
everyone around you is crying.” This sums up the life and time of Teacher
Nkanang who left the world smiling and everyone crying and praying that God
will send to this world more men like this great and inspirational teacher. ––(Pastor
Ukpe is public affairs commentator based in Uyo.)