By Victor Ogunje The Ekiti State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has rejected the offer of consensus candidacy being pushed by a section of the party to elect members of state, local government and ward executives in the April 2 congress of the party. The party dissociated itself from a meeting called at the weekend by a group loyal to former state Governor, Ayodele Fayose, where the idea of a consensus chairmanship candidate was mooted. The party reiterated its commitment to free, fair and transparent congress where all officers of the party are elected according to the constitution of the party. In a statement issued by the Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Jackson Adebayo, yesterday, the party cautioned leaders of the party from engaging in meetings that can cause confusion and disharmony among the party members The PDP stated that any leader who does this has a motive aimed at bringing the party to its kneel rified that “the meeting that took place at Senator Clement Awoyelu house in Ado Ekiti, where the issue of consensus chairmanship candidate for the party came up, doesn’t enjoy the approval of the party in the state, hence it is declared an aberration and whatever decision taken there is null and void. “The clarification becomes necessary in order to correct the erroneous impression that the meeting was called on behalf of the party. “The convener of the meeting, the former state Governor, Fayose, was expected to let the gathering know that the meeting was his personal idea instead of creating the impression that it was an official party meeting.” PDP, therefore, cautioned members to desist from politics capable of destroying the party. It urged members to concentrate on canvassing for delegates against desperate push for consensus arrangement, saying the constitution of the party will be strictly adhered to in conducting the congress. Reacting, Fayose in a statement by his media aide, Olayinka, said: “We won’t join them in the advertisement of their hatred for the survival of PDP in Ekiti State. But the question is: ‘why is Adebayo as the state publicity secretary always quick to react to issues within the party than to act as the mouthpiece of the opposition in the state?’ “A lot has happened in this state- 3,000 workers have been sacked, what has Adebayo said as the PDP publicity secretary? He has not said anything. My concern is such that I’m beginning to believe the notion that Adebayo and co are working hand in hand with the APC-led state government. “In the last one year, he has not said anything to criticise the government of APC in this state. The only time you hear about him is when there is intra-party issue to be reacted to. “The party is presently polarised into two factions with one bloc being headed by Fayose while the Senator representing Ekiti South senatorial district, Biodun Olujimi, led the other group. While Fayose is backing former Commissioner for Environment , Hon. Bisi Kolawole, to succeed the incumbent PDP state Chairman, Gboyega Oguntuase, Olujimi is mobilising support for a former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. kehinde Odebunmi.