Onungwe Obe in Yenagoa Anxiety pervaded Bayelsa State yesterday as residents await the review of the Supreme Court’s judgment that sacked the candidates of the Progressives Congress (APC), Chief David Lyon and Senator Degi Erimienyo as governor-elect and deputy governor-elect, investigations have revealed. Residents who gathered in groups at different places in Yenagoa, were seen discussing the impending review, its possible outcome and impact on public law and order. The apex court on February 13, a day to Lyon’s inauguration as the governor of the state, ha delivered a judgment that returned Senator Douye Diri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the governor of the state. Members of the APC took to the streets of Yenagoa in a protest that degenerated into violence. Suspected supporters of the ruling party were also accused of protesting at the Abuja residence of Justice Mary Odili who headed the apex court’s panel that delivered the judgment. However, the leaders of the party have denied having a hand in the protest. However, following PDP’s protests and demand for a review of the Supreme Court judgment that sacked Hon. Emeka Ihedioha as Imo State governor, the APC had taken a cue from that to approach the apex court to review the Bayelsa judgment. As both parties await the outcome of the review, tension has enveloped the state. It was gathered that the governor, was in Abuja to attend a valedictory session organised for him by the Senate and might stay back to monitor development. Many PDP leaders in Bayelsa were also said to be in Abuja to witness the review. Expectations were high in both the camps of APC and the PDP on where the pendulum would swing. To the members of the PDP, Diri would remain the governor as the review would end up as an academic exercise. To the APC camp, the review would either restore the mandate of Lyon or make a fresh consequential order for a new election, which could involve Lyon and the APC. Meanwhile, the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide has raised the alarm over what it described as a plot to unleash violence on the state ahead of the review. The IYC said politicians were plotting to cause chaos, including coordinated attacks on oil installations in the state against the overall interest of the Ijaw nation. The IYC in a statement by its Secretary-General, Mr. Alfred Kemepado, warned against the plot and urged persons involved in it to sheathe their swords and give peace a chance. Kemepado asked persons angry at the twist in the state to explore legal or political means to address their grievances. He said instead of planning violence, aggrieved persons should follow democratic procedures to ensure peace and stability in the interest of the Ijaw nation. Kemepado also called on security agencies to be at the alert to forestall any attack. He appealed to the governor to accommodate all Ijaw people in and outside Bayelsa state irrespective of their political persuasions. Kemepado further called on all Ijaw people, especially in Bayelsa, to cooperate with the new government in the task of building the state, which is the only homogeneous Ijaw state in the country. He condemned the violence in Yenagoa in the wake of the Supreme Court judgment that disqualified Lyon. According to him, nobody’s ambition is worth the blood of any Ijaw person.