Through the
fire to the limit, they have risked it all to stay true to their marital union.
At a time when marriages are short-lived, some celebrity couples have proved
true to their marital vows. Vanessa Obioha writes about
them Ituah and Ibidunni Ighodalo: Always Together Today marks the
13th anniversary of the Ighodalos and in the usual tradition of Ibidunni, the
beauty and brain behind Elizabeth R Events, she will shower praises to the man
who walked her down the aisle 13 years ago. It is not uncommon to see posts
eulogising her husband on her Instagram page. She never misses an opportunity
to share mementos of them together or inspire her over 70,000 followers with
their journey of love. But she doesn’t do this in an ostentatious way. It is
her own way of telling the world that she got a man who got her back. The story of
the Ighodalos is an inspiring one for newlyweds or couples going through
challenges. Their love
story is one plotted around rejection. Ighodalo was formerly married to Lucy
Ann-Summer during his sojourn in the United States of America. Then, he had not
assumed the role of a clergyman. As a carefree man who cared little about
salvation, he was the ladies man (and still is). Armed with the right looks, he
made many damsels hearts’ flutter. So it was not a surprise that he would
capture the heart of  Summer. Their union had
all the trappings of true love but when a rough wind blew, their ship couldn’t
survive the storm. Ighodalo’s decision to return to Nigeria automatically ended
the marriage as both couldn’t sustain their relationships over the long
distance. Notwithstanding,
Ighodalo found love again when he met the former lux beauty queen Ibidunni. His
union with her however cost him a family. After being remarried for
two-and-a-half years, Ighodalo was asked to leave the Christ Church Parish of
the Redeemed Christian Church of God that he was famed to have nurtured. The
news of his sack made headlines. But all of that
is in the past as he and his heartthrob are tending their own flock of
worshippers at Trinity House. The beauty of
their union is how they have stayed glued and true to each other despite the
challenges they have faced, particularly struggle with fertility. The Ighodalos
have in no way worn their problems on their sleeves, instead, they lift each
other up (and also others) through words of encouragement and love. Their home
is one full of laughter and joy of their children which is visible in the
lovely posts Ibidunni shares on her Instagram page. In her words, she and her
beau are two hearts beating as one, two heads but one thought, two bodies but
one soul! Richard and Jumobi Mofe-Damijo: Still Loving If you ask the
prince of the silver screen Richard Mofe-Damijo about his marital life, his
prompt response will likely be “19 years no be beans.” Indeed, not all couples
in Nollywood can boast of such lasting relationships. Formerly married to May
Ellen Ezekiel, who unfortunately passed on in 1996, Mofe-Damijo found love
again in the arms of the former presenter on Raypower 101.5FM and AIT, Jumobi
Adegbesan. Those who worked closely with the latter would easily recall her
dreams to be a Mrs. Mofe-Damijo one day. With love, anything is possible. It was
only a matter of time before Cupid brought their hearts together and the rest,
they say is history. The lovebirds are happily married and are still growing
strong every day. Though Jumobi chooses to work from behind the screen, her
husband seizes every opportunity to celebrate her on Instagram. If he is not
sharing their cute pout photos, he is probably telling his Instagram family how
blessed he is to such a ray of sunshine in his life. Olu Jacobs and Joke Silva: Always Evergreen Their love
story has been told over and over again but we are never tired of hearing it.
We love good old love stories like veteran actors Olu Jacobs and Joke Silva to
remind us that neither career nor age differences can quench the flames of true
love. They command such respect that whenever there is a list of successful
marriages in Nollywood, their names will inevitably be on top of that list. The love story
goes that Jacobs met Silva at an Independence Day celebration and he fell in
love with her immediately. The story is as simple as that. Yet, the couple are
seen as exemplary figures to emulate when it comes to celebrity marriage. On
Instagram, Silva calls her husband Sir J and never fails to comment on his good
looks. Although Jacobs’ Instagram feed boasts few posts, you can bet that half
of the posts celebrate his wife and her career. 
Perhaps, the magic of their love is how they treat each other
professionally both online and offline. Yinka and Temitope Ayefele: Always Believing It is often
said that when life gives you lemons, make lemonades. Musician and media
entrepreneur Yinka Ayefele has done exactly that since a ghastly accident that
affected his spinal cord confined him to a wheelchair over two decades
ago. But beyond his accident, Ayefele is blessed with a beautiful and
kind-hearted woman who refused to abandon him at the nadir of his life.
Temitope who met Ayefele before his accident 
chose to stand by him through the thick and thin, even when the
possibility of having children was almost nonexistent. Yet, they endured,
encouraging each other, staying true to their commitment to be together for
better or for worse, in sickness and in health. Their home was finally filled
with the laughter of babies last year when Temitope delivered triplets. The joy
of the couple knew no bounds. At first, they were scared of losing the babies
who were born prematurely. However, the children survived and the couple have
become a point of reference for those who are experiencing childlessness and
waiting for their own bundles of joy. Soni and Betty Irabor: Perfect Imperfections This year, media
personalities Soni and Betty Irabor will be marking their 37th wedding
anniversary. Their enviable
union is one that understands that marriage is a learning experience; that no
matter how much you have spent with someone, there are still new things to
learn about the person. Their magic is sustained by the mutual understanding
that none of them is perfect. Soni and Betty married in July 1983 and are blessed with two
children. Working in the media industry, the couple are very protective of
their privacy except in rare occasions where Betty showers her ‘champ’ or ‘le
boo’, depending on the mood with love notes. Whether you believe it or not, the
couple are very optimistic that they will mark their 70th anniversary in health
and in mind. Dare and Deola Alade: Friends Forever When news of
the marriage filtered in over a decade ago, not a few wondered if the union
would last. This is partly due to the seeming age difference between the
couple. Deola is said to be eight years older than Dare. Despite the
unnecessary fears and speculations, the couple keeps waxing stronger in love each
new day. They support each other in their shared vision to curate top-notch
events in the showbiz sector through their company Livespot 360.The two have
maturely stayed away from public sentiments, guiding each other with so much
love and respect that it is hard to see the age difference between them. In an interview, Dare revealed that it is
friendship that has kept them together as a couple and business partners. The
couple will mark their 14th anniversary this year. Fela and Tara Durotoye:  Sweet and Spicy Recently, Fela
Durotoye took to his Instagram page to announce a webinar for singles titled,
‘Before Saying I Do: Secrets to Enjoying Marriage’. It is not unlikely that
Durotoye who participated in the last presidential election and is a suave
motivational speaker will hold such a seminar having had an enviable marriage
with lawyer and make-up artist guru Tara. 
Both couples are often seen as the ideal couple due to their synergy
visibly seen by all. They are not shy about sharing their experiences with
their fans on social media. From their humble beginnings to their elevated
status, the couple always dish out relationship ideas to anyone who cares to
listen. Not too long ago, they were featured on a TV commercial by seasoning
brand Maggi where they displayed their culinary skills. The couple married in
2001 and have three children. Isaac and Nneka Moses: Stuck to Each Other You may be
forgiven if you thought Nneka and Isaac Moses were siblings. The two lovebirds
are always seen together. Whether on screen presenting their award-winning
travel show Goge Africa, or off screen attending events, they are always
together like Siamese twins. The couple who met on the set of a movie in 1996
are rare examples of couples who have good working relationships. Their love
was put to test after more than a decade of marriage, they had no child.
However, in 2012, the couple finally welcomed a child. The couple tied the
knots in 1997. Charles and Diane Oputa: Crazy in Love They are not
your conventional couples. Charles Oputa, the entertainer and activist who is
known as CharlyBoy or Area Fada is not one that is easily pressured into following
societal norms. His eccentricity has always stood him out. Finding a soulmate
that understands his personality is truly a blessing to Oputa. Lady Diane fits
into the role perfectly, accommodating his beauties and flaws. Though they have
been living together for 40 years without an official wedding ceremony, Oputa
finally walked his beautiful bride who had successfully tamed his libertine
nature down the aisle in 2018. Lady Diane has three children for Oputa but
extends her motherly duties to nine other children Oputa had with different
women. Tunde and Wunmi Obe: Partners in Crime These two
entertainers were fans’ favourites at the now rested Charly Boy Show. Their
chemistry on screen was very infectious and this is equally seen off the
screen. When Tunde and Wunmi met over three decades ago, they had more than one
thing in common. They were both musicians, lost their respective fathers and
were undergraduates. Their passion for music and entertainment ignited a
spark that has stood the test of time. Ten years later after they met, the
couple became husband and
wife. In 2018, the couple celebrated their 20th wedding anniversary in an
elegant occasion and released a remix of ‘Without Your Love’, one
of the couple’s hit singles from their 2014 album ‘T.W.O. Plus’.