 Hamid Ayodeji The government of Sokoto State has expressed its
preparedness to accelerate development by providing adequate infrastructure to enhance
the ease of doing business within the state and position its citizens to
effectively harness business and economic opportunities. Speaking during a forum in Lagos, recently, with the
theme: “Building the Future Together,” which was organised by the Sokoto State
Ministry of Finance, the Governor, Sokoto state, Aminu Tambuwal who was
represented by the state’s Commissioner of Finance, Abdussamad Dasuki,
disclosed that his administration remains dedicated to attracting both local
and foreign investors, so as to improve alternative funding that would improve
its economic climate. The Governor explained that his administration is
currently working towards leveraging on its positive financial management
profile to expand its capacity, boost overall productivity and implement
empowerment initiatives in the state. According to him, the state government was dedicated to
effectively collaborating with stakeholders in order to invest heavily in
infrastructural development, adding that this would make Sokoto’s economy more
conducive for business and investment. Tambuwal added: “Thus, we call on the private sector to
support our effort by investing in the development of the state’s economy. “We know that the transformation of any economy towards
sustainable growth can only be achieved with the collaboration and support of
the private sector. “We have a vibrant market with about 40 million SMEs in
the country and they contribute 48 per cent to the national GDP and accounts
for 96 per cent of businesses, which indicates that it is vital to the revival
of any economy of which, Sokoto has not been an exception. “Owing to this, we have taken deliberate action to work
hand in hand with the private sector to drive Sokoto state to its maximum
potential. “We remain dedicated to immensely impacting the lives of
the people of Sokoto by implementing initiatives that would boost the
agricultural sector of the state and eventually emerge as the leading producer
of agricultural products,” he said. On his part, Prof. Pat Utomi, who was at the event, said
one of the key variables to attaining a sustainable developed economy was
investing heavily in entrepreneurship. “We need to raise a generation of creatives, innovators
and generators of economic problem solutions.”