Ernest Chinwo in Port Harcourt Eminentville School has said it is raising awareness about the devastating effects of cancer not only to make the students aware of the disease and how to prevent it, but also to create empathy among them. The Principal of the Port Harcourt-based school, Mr. Emmanuel Okorie said this when he led the students and staff on a visit to the Cancer Specialist Unit in the Paediatric Department of the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital. He said the visit was also part of the resolve of the school management to continue to help the indigent ones as part of its corporate social responsibility. He restated the commitment of the school to high academic standards that Eminentville School is known for, as well as high moral upbringing and empathy for others.
“This visit is coming after similar visits to Cheshire Home and Remand Centre in Port Harcourt. We are not only teaching our students about diseases and how to curtail them, but we are also teaching them to show empathy to the sick ones in the society. This way we learn how to care for one another and build a better society.”
The school donated cash and gift items to children battling with cancer. Conducting the students, who said the visit was also in commemoration of the last World Cancer Day, round the ward the head of the Cancer Specialist Unit, Prof. Nwadiuto Akani, explained that cancer is a major problem to both the young and old but can be prevented with lifestyle adjustments and regular medical check-ups. She commended students and management of the school for the visit and asked them not to relent as they extend love to the needy.
Eminentville School students who were properly educated by medical staff of the hospital, admitted at the end of the visit that they became better informed after seeing the situation of children with cancer. They appreciated the need for empathy and support to victims the world over. Maximiliano Amaewhule and Kayla Ikpendu, level 9 students, who were part of the delegation, called on well-meaning Nigerians to constantly reach out to cancer patients because they need care, love and support of everyone to overcome their challenge.