Kuni Tyessi in Abuja Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has added a one story building within its premises which has cost the board a sum of N89,476,000.60. The board has also reaffirmed that there would be no admissions except that which has gone through the Central Admissions  Processing System (CAPS), adding that leadership of any higher institution found to be involved in admitting any candidate without prior approval outside the system would be considered as supporting corruption. This was announced yesterday by the Minister of education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, at the headquarters of the board during the commissioning of the building which has been dedicated to the General Services Department. He said CAPS which ensured due process, fairness, discipline and equity in its process, would be in the interest of ordinary candidates irrespective of where they come from, gender or social status. He urged candidates who are billed to sit for the 2020 Unified Tertiary  Matriculation Examination (UTME) to refrain from any form of examination malpractice and admission racketeering. “Let me also congratulate JAMB of the Central Admissions Processing System (CAPS) which has revolutionised admission process in the interest of ordinary candidates irrespective of where they come from. “Leadership of any higher institution found to be involved in admitting any candidate without prior approval of the board or outside the established platform, CAPS, would be considered and treated as corrupting the admission system. “It is through the automated system that ordinary Nigerians are now hopeful of not being denied their rightful place in the admission exercise. CAPS protects the traditional right of the Senate or academic board of the institutions since CAPS does not allow anyone other than the admission officer and the vice chancellor, rector or provost to initiate, propose or recommend any candidate for admission, but it also requires the documentation and tracking of any deviation by the institution from the approved policy in admission,” he said. JAMB Registrar, Prof. Ishaq Oloyede, who announced the amount spent for the construction of the building, called on all  staff to be optimistic and to support the board in its fight against corruption.