  With the death on
Wednesday of Sir Victor Abimbola Olaiya at 89, the curtains have fallen on an
era of highlife music, Yinka
Olatunbosun writes Sir Victor Olaiya’s journey into highlife music began with his abandonment of the offer of a degree programme in civil engineering at Howard University in the US to pursue music. His parents didn’t find his decision funny.  This was especially so since they considered music a mere pastime and not a lucrative career. His path to stardom was in the 1950s with the
likes of Emmanuel Tettey Mensah and Bobby Benson holding sway. First as a
trumpeter with Sammy Akpabot’s band and the 11-piece band – the Bobby Benson
Jam Session Orchestra which panned out as the platform of growth for many
Nigerian Highlife musicians – he later became a maestro with a massive
followership. A revered music critic and the first music
manager for Fela Anikulapo Kuti, Benson Idonije recalled in his book, Dis Fela
Sef  that Olaiya
was a dominant figure in Lagos music scene just at Eddie Okonta was in Ibadan.
Fela was one of Olaiya’s mentees as a young trumpeter who enjoyed his music
tutelage with Olaiya’s music band, The Cool Cats. Olaiya remained the toast of
music fans even in the face of stiff competition from the likes of Roy Chicago,
Adeolu Akinsanya, E. T Mensah’s Tempos Band and other Ghanaian bands that were
signed to Decca West Africa. Olaiya’s lyrical compositions were mostly rendered
in Yoruba language that conveyed hit songs like “Iye Jamila,” “Sisi Yen”,
“Omo Pupa” and “So fun mi.”  His
music contemporaries include Cardinal Rex Jim Lawson, whose music transported
the rhythms and melodies of the Abonema people from Rivers State. As a choice band of the period founded by a true
virtuoso, Olaiya’s band was chosen to play at the state ball when Queen
Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom visited Nigeria in 1956, and later to play
at the state balls when Nigeria became independent in 1960 and when Nigeria
became a republic in 1963. In addition, Olaiya shared the stage with the
American jazz musician, Louis Armstrong. Perhaps, Sir Victor Olaiya cheated death during
the Nigerian civil war era because most of the highlife bands of the period
which were of Yoruba extraction were conscripted into the army. Benson Idonije,
further recounted under the  subheading,
“The Civil War Years” that the political climate of the period took its
toll on the cultural landscape with a thinned nightlife. He noted that “Lagos
was entirely rid of highlife musicians as a result of the mass exodus” as bands
were recruited to entertain Nigerian soldiers at the war fronts.  And so was Olaiya’s All-star band- a fact
that contributed to the wane of highlife music at the period to give rise to
other music genres such as juju and Afrobeat. Olaiya renamed his band as All Stars Band when
they performed at the 1963 International Jazz Festival in  Czechoslovakia. Olaiya also ran a business
that imported and distributed musical instruments and accessories throughout
West Africa and established the Stadium Hotel in Surulere. The Founder,
JazzVille, a former jazz club in Yaba, Mayowa Majekodunmi, in his tribute,
spoke on the impact of Olaiya’s music at the period. “I grew up listening to this wonderful doyen of
highlife in the mid 60’s, when l came back from England where my dad worked at
the Nigerian High Commission,” he recalled. “At that time l had a strong and
passionate love for all kinds of music from classical to pop and from jazz to
highlife. Sir Victor Olaiya was one of my favourites along with other  acts like IK Dairo, Dele Ojo, Uwaifo and many
more. Olaiya however topped the list. I visited his Stadium Hotel once in a
while during my ‘pub crawling’ days and it was always a thrill to see him
perform. It always brought back memories of my childhood. It’s a sad loss to
our music culture indeed.” Olaiya’s music remained very influential in
Nigeria’s contemporary music scene as his classic, “Mofe Muyon” is one of the
most covered songs in the history of highlife in Nigeria. Art Alade,
Lieutenant  Shot Gun, Tade Ogidan’s
Nollywood All Stars and 2Baba are some of the popular artists with commercially
successful remixes of the song renamed, “Baby Jowo” which ranks as one of the
best love songs of the century. His music collaborator and , Innocent Idibia
better known as  2Baba also took to the
social media to express his grief at the loss of this music giant. “I am devastated by the news of your passing. Dr.
Victor Olaiya – maestro, mentor, legend; Thanks for the beautiful music. Thanks
for the inspiration. Blessed for the honour of sharing a mic and stage with
you. Rest in peace baba,” he tweeted. For the Founder, Lagos International Jazz
Festival, Ayoola Shadare, Olaiya’s legacy will never be forgotten. “Olaiya
was a living African Music legend,” he said. “Called the ‘evil’ genius of
highlife music,  his passing although sad
is a celebration of life. He lived till a ripe old age unusual for people in
his line of business. His impact and influence on Nigerian and African music is
undeniable. He held and wore his genre highlife like a badge of honour. It’s
noteworthy that in the early days a lot of other Nigerian greats like Fela Kuti
and Tony Allen played with this Titan. I am happy that we at Inspiro and
Naijazz Music were able to  celebrate him
about seven years ago at his popular Stadium hotel. His legacy is inerasable
and Nigeria has indeed lost a mega icon in him but his music remains with us.” According to the statement issued by Bimbo Esho,
the managing director of Evergreen Music Company Ltd, Olaiya took the final bow
at the Lagos University Teaching hospital(LUTH), Lagos State at 12noon on
Wednesday February 12 at the age of 89. A seasoned music journalist and a member of the
Felabration Organising Committee, Abdul Okwechime, described Olaiya as the last
of his generation.  “He spanned over
generations. He was irresistible. Even the legendary Fela cut his teeth with
his band.  That is how awesome he strode
the Nigeria music firmament. Mega respect to a great hornsman- an accomplished
musician,”  he said. Olaiya had many wives and children
including the late actress, Moji Olaiya who died in 2017 in Canada just two
months after she gave birth to her second child.