Peter Uzoho The Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Mr. Simbi Wabote, has said the agency will strive to give the needed support to Falck Prime Atlantic Limited, to enable it succeed. Falck Prime Atlantic is an oil and gas safety solutions provider offering technical and safety trainings to its numerous clients in Nigeria. Wabote, gave the assurance yesterday, during his visit to Falck Prime Atlantic’s training facility in Ipara, Ogun State. He said the training offered by the company was necessary as it would impact positively on the Nigerian oil and gas industry. The executive secretary, who expressed delight over the investment made by the company as well as the level of its maintenance, added: “I think it is very impressive. As you can see, a lot of investment has gone into this. “It is a facility from what I understand commissioned 10 years ago and I am impressed that they are still maintaining the standard when you look at the cleanliness of the facility which is meant to train people on all manner of safety and technical skills. “And I think the company has done a very good job here. They believed in Nigeria. The onus is now on us in NCDMB to give them all the maximum support in order that they will reap the benefit of their tremendous investment in Nigeria and for believing in Nigeria. “You can see that it was well exhibited in the facility, and again some of the trainings that you have here are things that Nigerians pay a lot of money to go and get trained outside the country with the foreign exchange as it, but you can see that it is being done here in Nigeria and which is what we pride for.” According to him, the company is of international standard and has got all the international certification and affiliation. He said the kind of training offered by his host was seriously needed in the oil and gas industry, pointing out that the industry does not accept substandard training or mediocrity and unqualified people to work on board. Wabote, however, noted that Nigeria was making tremendous progress in terms of building human capacity in the technical skill area. He further said that the facility he saw would not only serve the oil and gas industry but all sectors of the nation’s economy.