Plateau United earned a gritty goalless draw away to top position rivals, Lobi Stars to retain the top spot on the log after Match-day 21 games of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) yesterday. In another top draw fixture, River United nicked a 2-1 win against Kano Pillars to move into second place, above Lobi Stars. In Lafia, struggling Nasarawa United stunned cup holders, Enyimba to halt the Aba side’s recent surge that saw them go unbeaten in four games. In Port Harcourt, Konan N’gouan opened scoring for the Pride of Rivers in the 20th minute when he converted from the penalty spot before Emotan Cletus sealed all three points for Rivers United with an 87th minute goal. Rabiu Ali got a consolation for Kano Pillars in the 91st minute. In Uyo, Akwa United missed the chance to close the gap on third placed Lobi Stars, managing to grind out a late goal to draw 1-1 draw with relegation threatened Warri Wolves. Jumbo Wisdom scored the all important goal for Wolves in the 70th minute from the penalty spot while Ndifreke Effiong rescued the points for the Promise Keepers. Akwa United remain fourth on the table while Warri Wolves move up to 16th. Enyimba’s winning streak came to an end yesterday as they lost to relegation threatened Nasarawa United. Enyimba thought they had taken the lead when Dare Olatunji put the ball into the back of the net in the 17th minute but he was judged to be in an offside position. However, it was Nasarawa who took the lead when Chinedu Ohanachom showed some exceptional predatory instincts to score from close range after Haggai Katoh’s low effort hit the bar. Hagai Katoh completed a brilliant performance by scoring the second goal of the match in the 89th minute. Jigawa Golden Stars came from behind to beat Wikki Tourists 2-1 and gave a boost to their determined fight to avoid relegation. Promise Damala gave Wikki Tourists in the second minute but Ibrahim Saleh equalized for Jigawa just after the break. Abdulahi Lala completed the come-back for Jigawa who are still in the relegation zone despite the win. There were also nil all draws in Agege and Akure. Coach Fidelis Ilechukwu returned to his old ground at Age with Heartland to share points with MFM that gave him his coaching stripes in the league. Rangers drew 0-0 also in Akure with Sunshine Stars. MATCHDAY 21 Nasarawa 2-0 Enyimba Rivers Utd 2-1 Pillars Jigawa 2-1 Wikki Adamawa 2-1 IfeanyiUbah Katsina 1-0 Abia Warriors Akwa Utd 1-1 Wolves MFM 0-0 Heartland Lobi 0-0 Plateau Sunshine 0-0 Rangers Dakkada 0-0 Kwara Utd