 Anthony Uwa argues that the implementation of BRISIN system for
data governance will make a difference Way back in 2000, the Nigerian government was told that the absence of
data governance instruments constitute a disincentive to meeting development
targets and sustenance of long-term development goals. In order to better appreciate the issues, former President Olusegun
Obasanjo at the G8 meeting in Italy requested to know the critical link between
data governance and sustainable development in a country like Nigeria. 
Although government had embraced and accepted e-government; this as we know,
did not detail the fundamental platform for data governance. As such, Obasanjo
was introduced to the Basic Registry and Information System in Nigeria
(BRISIN), by a group of solution providers led by Dermo Impex of Italy. The idea eventually turned out to be a lengthy, seemingly unending
process. Government officials were at pains to comprehend how this single
instrument can resolve almost all ailments bedevilling a nation this complex;
considering its various ethnic, religious and other sentiments, outside
national vices such as criminality and unemployment, all tied to lack of proper
documentation and absence of reliable data. However, to observe necessary diligence and due process, the
former president insisted on holding consultations resulting in several
presentations made to all MDAs. Subsequently, the Nigerian government sent
technical experts to Italy for on-sport assessment and to acquire knowledge and
experience on how the BRISIN idea works real-time in Italy before its adoption
and domestication to fit into the Nigerian multi-problematic situation. On its return to Nigeria, the delegation, led by then
Statistician-General of the Federation, Dr. Vincent Akinyosoye, obtained
provisional approval from President Obasanjo. The former Minister of the FCT,
Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, made a provision in the budget for a pilot run in the
FCT. In 2007, El-Rufai and the former Deputy Chairman of National Planning,
Senator Wali presented the BRISIN initiative before the Federal Executive
Council where it was ratified and approved for implementation. As the country grapples with the spate of insecurity, issues about
factual personal data on the identity of every Nigerian and almost endless
military combat with the dreaded Boko Haram sect, the recent visa ban by the
United States has brought to the fore the critical need for data consolidation
and management on the BRISIN template. It is therefore appropriate to situate
the worsening insecurity and disgraceful hammer of immigrant visa ban by the US
to Nigeria’s unpreparedness to implement BRISIN. Meanwhile, had Nigeria garnered the will to achieve the BRISIN, by now,
data on every Nigerian should have been known and his or her activities
monitored. Similarly, foreign nationals living in Nigeria should have been
identified and their activities scrutinized. The Nigerian economy should have
improved, well-tracked, monitored and controlled while crime and criminal
activities should have been reduced to the minimum considering how easy it
would have been identifying and tracking criminals, be they terrorists,
bandits, cyber criminals and dangerous individuals to their hideouts. Terrorism would have left Nigeria because security agents would
have deployed data information to further identify, isolate and cut off
resources to terrorists using shared intelligence and data to fish out
extremists. In addition, employment would have hit the massive pitch in every sector
with every income earner adding value to the economy by paying appropriate tax
to the coffers of government in a productive and buoyant economy; as such,
Value Added Tax should have been the hub for internally generated revenue and
every commercial and economic operator should have been paying gladly. By now, health and education sectors should have regained their space in
terms of coverage and quality, while social welfare would have been well
organised. For sure, investors, local and international, appreciate the value
of data for planning and business projections. Rather than our governors
trooping out of the country seeking investors, the reverse should have been the
case. Although the annual remittance by Nigerians in the Diaspora is always
commendable, implementing the BRISIN project would have further consolidated
the confidence of these industrious citizens in investing at home with absolute
confidence on reputable data administration which would have comfortably
consolidate the Nigerian place as the most advanced economy on the African
continent. Today, a leap in the right direction is the creation of the Ministry of Humanitarian
Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. The missing link is the
implementation of BRISIN system as a base for data governance. This singular
instrument is germane to the realisation of the mandate of the ministry,
especially in responding to disaster management and effectively managing social
development issues on a national scale. To avoid further embarrassment therefore, it is imperative for President
Muhammadu Buhari to urgently consider the need to constitute the National Board
of Data Governance with BRISIN as reference point. Membership of the Board
should comprise of the National Security Adviser, Ministers of Interior,
Humanitarian Affairs, Science & Technology and Finance. The
Director-General of the National Bureau of Statistics, five experts drawn from
the private sectors and three from the academia should also be members of the
board while the Office of Secretary to the Government of the Federation assumes
the responsibility to lead in the coordination of BRISIN implementation in
Nigeria. •Dr. Uwa is the head, BRISIN implementation in Nigeria