 What is going on in the world of the powerful,
influential and incorrigibly wealthy? New cars, new apartments in palm-tree
countries, even New Year resolutions, their lives and lifestyles are
extensively different from those of the common folk. While a long-necked
onlooker might never get to give flesh to his deepest fantasies of fortune and
affluence, a dive into these high lives inspires as much as it counsels. The life of Taiwo
Afolabi, for example, is one of such. Understanding the lifestyle, companions
and choices of Mr. Afolabi are the first step to confirming the maxim that
money answers all things, and that unrepentant determination – coupled with a
drive to reach the stars – is the way to accrue this money; there’s also the
bit about things that money cannot buy, e.g. Mr. Afolabi’s devotion to his
family and friends. In a minute, first, a peek at the boss himself. For those in the
know, Dr. Taiwo Olayinka Afolabi is the CEO of SIFAX Group, a multinational
conglomerate that is well invested in industries ranging from Maritime,
Aviation, Haulage, Logistics, Oil & Gas and Hospitality, and much more. The
man is a power player, a philanthropist, speaker and seasoned consultant – to
mention a few of his passions. He has doubtless built new wall spaces to
accommodate awards from all corners of the world’s business sectors, but commits
himself to domestic undertakings as well as foreign assignments. There’s his wife,
and now the scope is his inside life. Folasade Afolabi, the celebrated backbone
of Taiwo Afolabi. A CEO in her own right (as she runs Folas Fabrics, the
popular fabric establishment in Lagos), Madam Folasade allows her husband to
hug all the limelight, content to be the engine running in the background. A
high society lady, if ever there was one; she is graceful, sanguine and a
contemplative personality. Then there is the
Kehinde Afolabi, another arm of Taiwo Afolabi’s life – excluding his beloved
children. This is the twin brother who is 
more more outgoing, and the life of the party in their relationship. Being
the louder voice, Kehinde’s socialisation has always been matched against
Taiwo’s business savvy – which is not to say that the former isn’t a success.
One time, it was even reported that he (Kehinde) mans the multimillion-naira
hotel, Kenny Dallaa, in Ilupeju, Lagos – which speaks of a business
intelligence often indulged. With both beloved wife and beloved brother, Taiwo Afolabi
ably straddles the line between home and work, and the successes continue to pile up.