By Victor Ogunje The Ekiti State Government has revoked the contract for the rehabilitation of the Ayede-Ikun-Otun Ekiti road valued at N3.2 billion from the construction company handling the project. The road was awarded to Sharvet Nigeria Limited early January 2020 and the company has not mobilised to site and commenced work as contained in the terms of the agreement since then. Speaking with journalists after the state executive council meeting in Ado Ekiti Wednesday, the Information Commissioner, Mr. Muyiwa Olumilua, said the government took the action owing to gross incompetence exhibited by the construction firm. He, however, stated that the contractor won’t be prosecuted having willingly complied with the revocation order and surrendered the project for re-award. Olumilua said the State Executive Council approved the revocation and re-award of the project to another company deemed as having the human and material resources to prosecute the job before the raining season. “We have a policy under Governor Kayode Fayemi-led government. When we award contract, we expect the contractor to first mobilise to site and display capacity before financial mobilisation by government. That has been the standard. “We awarded four road contracts at the same time in January. But unfortunately, Sharvet Nigeria Limited refused to mobilise to site and begin work while the three others are already working as agreed. “Anytime we award contracts, we believe we are dealing with a contractor that has the competence and once this is lacking and we don’t want our people to suffer due to deplorable road conditions, it has to be revoked, which we did in the interest of our people,” he said. The commissioner revealed that the government also approved a sum of N322.76 million for the rehabilitation of Igbara Odo-Ibuji road, which includes patching of damaged portions of the road and other works. Olumilua added that the council approved a sum of N100 million for the commencement of rehabilitation of township roads in Ekiti, which he said will be executed in phases and would touch virtually all the strategic 133 towns across the state. The commissioner stated that the council also approved the Regulatory Unit Strategic plan 2020-2022 that will serve as a guide for the full implementation of water supply and sanitation policy of the government.