 •Says
CBN will continue to push private sector credit Obinna
Chima The Central Bank of Nigeria
(CBN) Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, has stressed the need to urgently
diversify the economy and “create institutional structures that will insulate
the economy from oil shocks.” Emefiele also warned that a
potential fall in oil prices could debilitate the economy and adversely impact
exchange rate and heighten inflationary pressure. The CBN governor said this in
his personal comment at the January Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting,
obtained at the weekend. The benchmark Brent crude
price stood at $56.78 per barrel as at Saturday, $3.22 below the $60 oil
benchmark for the 2020 budget. “I reiterate that even as
economic recovery stayed fragile, effective anchoring of inflation expectations
remain fundamental. “Besides, potential fall in
oil prices could debilitate the economy and adversely impact the exchange rate
with ramifications for inflation. “It remains urgently
imperative to diversify the economy and create institutional structures that
will insulate the economy from oil shocks,” he explained. According to him, following a
tepid performance in 2019, global macroeconomic condition is expected to
stabilise in 2020, as growth momentum inches up, albeit, sluggishly. According
to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), global growth for 2020 is projected
at 3.3 per cent, from 2.9 per cent in 2019. The projection was buoyed by
expected positive outcome of the US-China trade talks, favourable execution of
Brexit, and ample monetary policy stimulus. Regardless, downside risks subsist
and market sentiments remain fragile, especially as heightening geopolitical
tensions between US and Iran amplified global uncertainties. However, for the Nigerian
economy, the CBN governor said short-term outlook remained modest while output
growth recovery was expected to progress. He stated that CBN analysis
forecast growth at about 2.4 per cent for 2020, from 2.2 per cent estimated for
2019. This, according to Emefiele,
could be accompanied by a gradual rise in inflation over the short-term, driven
largely by structural and monetary factors in the domestic space. “Data by the National Bureau
of Statistics (NBS) shows evidence of consolidation in economic recovery as
real GDP growth increased to 2.3 per cent in 2019 Q3, from 2.1 per cent in 2019
Q2. “Analyses indicate that the
oil sector grew by 6.5 per cent, contributing 0.6 percentage point to total
growth while non-oil sector, with a growth of 1.9 per cent, accounted for 1.7
percentage points with a robust prospect for 2019 Q4 outcome. “The favourable growth
sentiment is supported by positive Purchasing Managers’ Index –both in the
manufacturing and non-manufacturing indexes– buoyed by the continued foreign
exchange (FX) market stability and the enhanced credit flows to the real
private sector of the economy,” he stated. Emefiele noted that
regardless of the upswing, cautious policy was irrefutable as growth was still
low while per capita income and unemployment rate remained outside tolerable
levels. “Besides, the modest
short-term prospect is threatened by a delicate oil price dynamics, weak
aggregate demand, persistent herder–farmer conflicts and prevalent security
challenges. “I am of the view that a
favourable resolution of these challenges, reinforced by sustained FX
stability, as well as continued implementation of the Loan-to-Deposit Ratio
(LDR) policy, will further boost short-term outlook. “Data on domestic prices
shows a displeasing and continued uptick in year-on-year headline inflation
rate from 11.85 per cent in November 2019 to 11.98 percent in December, with
near-term outlook suggesting a gradual build-up of inflationary pressure up to
mid-2020. The observed rise reflects the 0.19 and 0.34 percentage points
increases in both food and core inflation to 14.67 and 9.33 per cent,
respectively, over the preceding month,” he added. He said analysis showed that
food inflation derived from the Yuletide spending was exacerbated by the
adverse effects of security challenges along some food producing belts. Though near-term upside
inflationary risks subsist, the existing foreign exchange stability and ongoing
aggregate supply boosting policies of the CBN were expected to continue to
dampen emerging pressure, he said. “Net domestic credit expanded
by 27.3 per cent, reflecting the 92.9 per cent growth in government credits and
the 13.6 per cent rise in private sector credits. “I note the robust and
progressing outturn of domestic private sector credits. While this reflects our
recent inclination on LDR, I continue to emphasise the importance of enhanced
credit flows to strategic private sector ventures through an effective
collaboration of all stakeholders. “I reiterate that CBN will
continue to propel credits to the private sector, even as I remain mindful of
the risk aversion of banks to supposedly high-risk real sector ventures. “I note the improvements in
banks’ Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) position and our continuing efforts at
de-risking the target sectors. “Robust credits will bolster domestic investment,
household demand and factor productivity while accelerating economic
diversification, and ensuring strong and inclusive growth,” he added.