Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo Education has been described as the driving force behind the country’s economic development, while children are the strength of sustainable development efforts.
Osun State Governor, Adeboyega Oyetola made this known at the sod turning ceremony of the West African Examinations Council (WAEC’s) permanent office complex, examination and CBT centre in Osogbo. He said since the beginning of his adminstration, efforts have commenced on the revitalisation of the education sector with renovation of school buildings, provision of instructional materials to students and training and re training of teachers throughout the state to make Osun students compete with their peers globally. He added that the state is enthusted by developments and will support all efforts by WAEC to preseve the integrity of school certificate examination and that the facilities will enhance the efficiency of staff of the examination board in the state, ease examination administration and tackle examination misconduct significantly. The governor also stressed that the state has zero tolerance for examination misconduct and is ready to work with WAEC to flush the monster out of the country’s our education system because the best way to build the leaders of tomorrow and achieve sustainable development is to improve on the integrity and sanctity of examinations Also speaking, the Commissioner for Education, Folorunso Oladoyin said the government is committed to honesty, transparency and excellence as the Oyetola adminstration is happy to be identified with WAEC. He said the current adminstration is delighted that the edifice includes a Computer Based test centre because it is coming at a time when a significant part of the efforts of the ministry of education is improving on the digital literacy of learners. Also speaking, the Branch Controller of WAEC, Dr. Busari said the idea of the project was first concieved by the management of the National Office, WAEC, under the leadership of Mr. Olutise Adenipekun in 2019 after which the Ministries of Education and Lands were reached out to. Busari said three sites were proposed for the project after which the best was chosen, which is Ataoja High School.
He said upon the completion of the edifice, the branch office of WAEC in Osogbo will wear a new look and be better positioned to enhance its service delivery and will aid in the promotion of excellence, sound and qualitative education in the state.
Highlight of the programme was the official turning of the sod by the governor.