 • Alleges APC chairman wanted to steal Rivers’ mandate Ernest
Chinwo in Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike saturday asked the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Adams Oshiomhole to resign immediately for failing to stop the inauguration of Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Duoye Diri as he boasted. Wike, also, accused
the APC national chairman and his associate of attempting to steal the mandate
of Rivers people, though were strongly resisted, thereby resulting in his
bitterness towards Rivers State. He made the call at
a session with journalists in Port Harcourt yesterday, noting that under no
circumstances would the people of Rivers State allow Oshiomhole and his
associates rob Rivers State of the people’s mandate. He said Nigeria “is a country where you see people who do
not have character. Today, they sing a song. Tomorrow, they sing another song.
I think Oshiomhole as the APC national chairman is not a character that anybody
should associate with. “First of all, I have never been violent and I will never
be violent. However, when you see armed robbers come to your house, will you
plead with the armed robbers and say please I beg you leave my house. “People think that armed robbers are only those who cart
away people’s money. The worst form of armed robbery is when you steal peoples
mandate and just like what Oshiomhole is noted for. He thinks because he’s in the
ruling party, he can use security to steal the mandate of the people. “He was taught a lesson, a bitter lesson and I want to
repeat, if you come to steal our mandate, the people will respond accordingly.
They will oppose your stealing of their mandate and so Oshiomhole thinks that
because he is in the ruling party nobody should say anything or do anything. “Stealing is not
only when you go to rob a bank. The worse form of armed robbery is when you
steal the mandate of the people,” Wike said. Wike described
Oshiomhole as a politician without character, noting that the APC national
chairman “is always driven by survival instincts. Oshiomhole cannot lay claim
to having canvassed for one man, one vote because he is not practising the
philosophy.” He noted that he
stopped attending the National Economic Council because Oshiomhole turned it
into a forum to bash former President Goodluck Jonathan, when he had gone to
praise Jonathan at Aso Villa for ensuring credible elections. “When
Jonathan made sure the election was free and fair, Oshiomhole came to the villa
and thanked Jonathan. When Jonathan left office, one of the reasons I don’t go
to NEC meeting is because of Oshiomhole. “When Jonathan left,
there was no day at the NEC meeting Oshiomhole would not bring Jonathan down.
Oshiomhole praised Jonathan for allowing one man one vote.  But when the man left, Oshiomhole changed.
That is his character. “Oshiomhole said he
fought godfatherism. At the same time, he wants to install himself as a
godfather in Edo state. Why is he fighting Obaseki? It is because the man
doesn’t take instruction from him.  He preaches what he doesn’t practice.” Wike said Oshiomhole
lacked the powers to challenge the pronouncement of the Supreme Court. “Oshiomhole has the audacity to say nobody will be sworn in
in Bayelsa state causing crisis in the country and nobody wants to call him to
order but for people like us in Rivers State. Because of people like Oshiomhole
and his style of leadership, his party lost so many areas they ought not to
have lost. “What
made them not to have candidates in Rivers State and Zamfara? It is because of
Oshiomhole. Oshiomhole led to the problem they have in Bayelsa. He is not a man
of integrity and nobody should take him seriously.”