By  Joseph Ushigiale The mark of leadership goes beyond the mere formulation and making policy pronouncements by a government. Indeed the hallmark of a good leader is the building of consensus, formulation of policies and their implementation or execution to ensure such policies get the desired outcomes. The recent
decision by the Governor Babajide Sanwo-olu’s administration to sack
motorcycles and tricycles otherwise known as Okada and Keke Napep from Lagos
main roads, restricting them to rural areas is an example of how a leader
exhibits the will to power. The decision to
ban these means of transportation although over due, is not new. Former
governor, Babatunde Fashola of Lagos state banned the use of Okada and
tricycles in the designated areas of the state, but the implementation died on
arrival. In the Federal Capital Territory, (FCT), Mallam Nasir El Rufai was the
first to ban them when he administered the FCT. Former Cross River State
governor, Donald Duke also initiated a well organised transition process that
eased the menace in that state and so many other states have taken such bold
steps to bring sanity to the chaos that Keke and Okada now create. Why was it
expedient for these states to take these decisions? The first was the spate of
accidents by the motorcyclists whose dare devilry accounted for several deaths
as well as incapacitation of both passengers and riders. The statistics from
the emergency and orthopedic units of several hospitals gave telling accounts
of the danger that loomed ahead if nothing was done quickly. From law
enforcement came reports that most of these okada riders were involved in
criminal activities as armed robbers, kidnappers and informants. There are
several reported cases where okada riders vanished with their passengers only
for the passengers to be sold to ritualists. Yet, others were used as means of
escape after robbery operations. In Lagos, it
seemed there was a sinister plan by some northern elements to infiltrate the
state. If you lived in Lagos in the last two years, you would have noticed a
silent movement down south of young men, who were being brought on trailers
daily to Lagos. The established
patterns of these northern elements with sinister motive was that the trailers
would arrive in the night at a designated part of the city, offload its human
cargo repeatedly and return. Gradually, every imaginable space on streets in
suburbs like Surulere, Ebute Metta, Palmgroove, Maryland, Ikeja, Lekki, Agege
right up to Lekki were strategically commandeered by these occupation forces. As soon as they
arrived Lagos and without any abode, they were issued a motorcycle and pronto
they commenced the Okada business without licensing, training and no means of
identification. As the authorities turned blind eyes to this exodus, so did the
movement increased with equal audacity. Soon, some of
these new okada riders ,who looked foreign, started exhibiting very strange
anti-social behaviours. They rode in pairs, spoke a language only they
understood and exhibited violent behaviours. Any face off with one of the
riders was an invitation to chaos. In a few minutes of an encounter, over a
hundred okada riders would converge, manhandle the person and you would be
lucky if your car was not burnt down right there. With all these
unfolding drama, it was clear that no responsible government would have folded
its hands to allow the breakdown of law and order in such an important state
like Lagos. Although the
implementation was shoddy and took a lot of Lagosians by surprise and currently
inflicts a lot of trekking on them on some routes; overall it should be
considered as a sacrifice to secure Lagos from Boko Haram and other criminal
elements. As this policy
goes into full implementation, those vested with the authority to monitor it
should note that its implementation took the pattern of putting the cart before
the horse. The current long treks experienced by Lagosians could have been
avoided if it thought through the entire process of implementing this policy. From first hand
experience, the Donald Duke administration conducted research to find out ways
of curbing the menace of these okada riders, tricycles were not a threat then.
First, it enacted a law establishing the motorcycle regulatory agency which was
vested with the power of registering all motorcycles and their riders in the
state. It also provided for two helmets for rider and passenger and a numbered
reflective vests for the rider. Before the
policy went into full operation or implementation, the state government
identified and reclassified the routes primary, secondary and rural routes. An
initial 50 buses were procured and the designated primary routes clearly marked
on them, Suzuki sedan cars with capacity for fours persons were procured and
deployed on the secondary routes while the registered motorcyclists were to ply
the rural routes where neither the big buses nor car could not easily accessed. The idea really
was for commuters to have different alternatives or choices to choose from and
not be left with a single or no choice at all as is the case in Lagos today.
People who have no means of transport are faced with the huge burden of
trekking very long distances to places hitherto covered by okada and Keke. Although I have
reliably been informed that the state government is about to roll out a comprehensive
transportation road map including palliatives to cushion the current sufferings
inflicted on Lagosians by the new policy, these initiatives would have been put
in place before implementation. While I
understand that this move has very huge security undertone, I do not believe
that ridding the state of Keke and okada would solve the security problems of
the state. I believe a very robust dependable transport system would naturally
phase out okada and Keke in our midst. For instance,
majority of India’s poor still operates its rickshaw an equivalent of the
tricycle as a means of transportation. India has not ban its use nor
categorized it as a security risk. Transport for London (TFL) has about 21000
active buses commuting people around London alone, that is apart from the train
services, waterways etc. Indonesia with over 600 million population still has a
variety of transport means including bemos (public minibuses), ojeks
(motorbikes), and becaks (pedicabs) for the people to choose from. So Lagos state
has to solve its transportation needs as its population continues to surge as
the state remains attractive and a magnet to rural dwellers and fortune seekers
looking for a better life. It is also
worth mentioning the dilemma of investors in the okada and tricycle transport
businesses. Established investors like Opay, Gokada etc who have  invested a fortune in developing this
business need to enter fresh negotiations with the authorities to mitigate the
huge losses that are already looming. As it stands, many would interpret this
decision to mean that Lagos state is unfriendly to investors. Right now,
Lagos state has to also provide answers to the thousands of people who have
been thrown into the unemployment market and deprived of their means of
livelihood. This is important because these same people who have no jobs can
now became a bigger security threat to society. The onus is on those in
authority to put in place a foolproof means of identifying genuine persons who
have been displaced by this ban and support them or absorb them into the new
transport value chain which I am sure the state government is fine tuning. 