 Peter Uzoho A former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and presidential candidate
of the Young Progressive Party (YPP) in the 2019 general election, Prof.
Kingsley Moghalu, has been selected as one of the speakers at a forum holding in
Washington DC, the United States of America, on Thursday. The panel with the topic: “Understanding
the Drivers of Inequality in Africa and Implications for Human
Development,” is being jointly hosted by the Africa Growth Initiative at
The Brookings Institution and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Moghalu, and his co-panelists who are experts
in inequality and African economic development would discuss the economic,
governance, and security implications of the diverse and evolving inequalities
across the continent. The Brookings in a statement, said the
discussion was being held owing to the realisation that high average rates of
economic growth in Africa over the past two decades have failed to make an
appreciable dent on inequality across the continent. According to the global research
institution, while the situation varied in size across the region, the
chasm between the rich and poor had remained widespread and entrenched. It noted that a business-as-usual approach
would not address factors driving inequality in the continent. The Brookings, however, stressed the need
to go beyond income to understand inequalities in key elements of human
development such as health, education, dignity, and human rights. It added: “We must go beyond averages and
analyse the various ways in which inequality plays out across an entire
population, in different places and over time. “The United Nations Development Programme
explores these themes and provides policy recommendations to address inequality
in its 2019 Human Development Report. “This report analyses persistent and
cumulative disparities in human development, as well as a new generation of
inequalities that are largely spurred by differential access to technology,
economic opportunities, political dominance, and climate change effects in an
attempt to unpack the drivers of these different trends.” Other members of the panel include: Chief
Economist and Head of Strategy, Regional Bureau for Africa, UNDP, Raymond
Gilpin; Visiting Fellow,  Center for Global Development, W. Gyude
Moore; Global Director, Poverty,  World Bank, Carolina Sanchez-Paramo; and
Senior Fellow and Director, Africa Growth Initiative, The Brookings
Institution,  Brahima S. Coulibaly (Moderator). Also, a special presentation would be
delivered by the Policy Specialist, Human Development Report, UNDP, Heriberto
Tapia, to set the tone for the panel session.