Ugo Aliogo A Nigerian based Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Boys to Men Foundation which is dedicated to ensuring that men become their best selves, and positively impact the communities in which they live has developed a digital social platform for men. According to a statement issued by the organisation and signed by the Executive Vice Chairman of the NGO, Mrs. Ifeoma Idigbe, the web based platform which is the first one dedicated to men, combines elements of LinkedIn and Facebook to provides social interactive platform focused, “on men’s concerns, allows sharing of information and knowledge, conversations, blogs, posts and others.” She said the platform which is managed and curated by professionals went live on this year’s Valentine’s Day, Friday February 14. According to her, “The focus of the foundation’s programmes for men is on creating awareness, increasing knowledge, and developing life skills and character through various initiatives, including a strong mentorship programme in collaboration with corporate mentors. This platform is special for men and our focus is on men, and matters of interest to men, in addition to welcoming their own contributions too.” She added, “Just go to our website, www.boystomenfoundation.com.ng and register (for free) to access the platform. After that, you become a member of our community of men with full access to our online offerings. We also invite you to navigate our main website to see what programmes and initiatives we have. You might want to get involved with them too.” The Founder highlighted some of the programmes of the foundation such as weekly podcasts ‘Thinking Aloud’ with Ifeoma Idigbe, Henry Bassey and Derek Igbinedion where topical issues are discussed. The statement further stated that the Talking boys (and raising good men) panel discussions is aimed at working to change the prevailing narrative on and about our boys and young men, “the Talking boys series holds three times a year.” She added: “The programmes and activities started in 2018, and expanded in 2019, inviting men to ‘join our monthly Conversations and share your thoughts and opinions; participate in Pass the Mic gatherings especially for those with creative ambitions, and enlist in the mentorship programme in which the Foundation assigns mentors from participating corporate organisations.” She remarked that the foundation subscribed to Thomas Page MCBee’s view that we must ‘create a culture where boys are not raised to see masculinity and humanity as mutually exclusive.