Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The internal imbroglio brewing in the Ekiti State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has assumed a disturbing dimension as two leading party figures in the state, ex-Governor Ayodele Fayose and the former Senate Minority Leader, Senator Biodun Olujimi, have renewed hostilities over an alleged secret oath administered on party members. The renewed verbal war between the party leaders was over a five minutes and two seconds video footage that went viral on Monday, which showed some PDP members loyal to Fayose purportedly swore to an oath. In the footage, the party’s executives in the Ijero council area led by the former PDP Chairman in the State, Mr. Bola Olu-Ojo, took turns to make a vow to be loyal to Fayose and laid curses on themselves that sudden death be visited on them should they betray him. Olujimi, who perceived the alleged development as fetish, berated Fayose for allegedly coercing the party executives with financial inducement to swear to a ‘fetish oath’ in order to sustain their loyalty. But Fayose’s Spokesman, Mr. Lere Olayinka, has denied that the party members were coerced and explained that they affirmed their loyalty to Fayose voluntarily. Olujimi said through his media aide, Sanya Atofarati, that Fayose’s action was desperation taken too far and described it as a condemnable reckless politicking, which has no merit in modern democracy. She alleged that Fayose was reputed from time immemorial for engaging in unconscionable conducts, describing the oath-taking scandal as barbaric, pettish and awkward. Olujimi said the oath-taking scandal has explicitly shown the extreme desperation of the former governor to revive his alleged sinking political career and dimming relevance in Ekiti politics after the people have rejected him. The federal lawmaker, who expressed dismay that a political leader like Fayose would force his followers into an oath, branded the politics of the ex-governor as “do-or-die affairs.” She warned the former governor against transmogrifying the party into an occult fraternity with his gluttonous quest for power and wealth, saying this may dent the soaring image and popularity of the PDP in Ekiti State. “It is unfortunate that a self-acclaimed political leader can condescend so low into engaging in fetish manipulations of the citizens he claims to lead and enjoy their support and loyalty. “From recent revelations at our disposals, it is now crystal clear that the demonic hold that he claims to have is by fetish remote control. It is now obvious that Fayose has lost relevance completely in the Ekiti PDP. “I admonish Ekiti PDP faithfuls who are hoping to make political benefits from their relationship with Fayose to have a rethink of the fetish-induced loyalty in their own best interest. Nothing fruitful will come out from their fraternity with Fayose. Those who served under him were pauperised. However, Fayose has countered the statements attributed to Olujimi by stating that there was nothing occult about the meeting as “it was just an open exercise for affirmation of loyalty. “Would anybody who is participating in occult practice record it in a video and sent it to the public? “We don’t have time for a loser who is being used by APC to destabilise the Ekiti PDP. If she wants to leave PDP, she can leave. She has right to ventilate her frustration having fail to take over PDP, so that she can became the party’s flag bearer in 2022,” Fayose added.