By Raheem Akingbolu The Purple Group has announced the rebranding of Purple Capital Partners Limited and change of name to Purple. Also its flagship multi-use centre, Maryland Mall in Lagos will now be known as Purple Maryland while the ongoing development in Lekki is to be known as Purple Lekki. The decision, it said, was in line with the group’s core belief in continuous innovation and customer satisfaction.
The Chief Executive Officer of the company, Mr. Olayide Agboola, who made the announcement in Lagos, noted the rebranding and repositioning takes effect from this month. He also indicated the process would be implemented on all the company’s physical and digital touch-points. Speaking on the new direction for Purple, Agboola explained: “We are refocusing our brand and extending our reach beyond just real estate development. We see the need to curate affordable lifestyle experiences by leveraging our expertise in real estate development.
“With MarylandMall, now Purple Maryland and our ongoing development with PurpleLekki, we are integrating retail, arts, entertainment, media and advertisement, family fun, food and drinks, e-commerce and financial services all in one through superior mixed-use centres and services. Our new focus is clear; working with our range and network of partners, we are creating affordable lifestyle experiences for our consumers across all income levels.” The CEO further pointed out that all the group’s facilities and ongoing development were also rebranded and would be addressed with the Purple prefix (PurpleMaryland, PurpleLekki) while its new services would also bear a touch of the Purple Identity as well. He, however, added that to keep in touch with the group’s brand heritage; they had kept the same colors and logo symbol. Speaking on what the new identity connotes, Agboola stated that the new Purple identity signified growing strength, resilience and elegance, which he noted accurately represents the significant growth and successes it has recorded over the past few years. He said: “Ours is a story of sheer resilience, best practices and excellent service delivery to our partners and clients across the group. With this brand repositioning, we are re-committing to our core beliefs and ensuring unwavering commitment to our values, to our investors and to our esteemed partners. Our refreshed brand clearly communicates these values. We are also excited to unveil the brand identities for our new services and ongoing development projects”.