Adejumo Abdulazeez Babatunde is a celebrated hairstylist and an author. The sociology graduate is the CEO and Creative Director of Hairbysleame. For Tunde he believes Every woman is beautiful regardless of their skin tone but the hair is her crown which should be treated nicely and never be pulled off. He adds, ‘A woman is never fully dressed without her hair properly styled. Every woman should adore their hair and I think that the most important thing a woman can have next to talent, of courseis her hairdresser.’ Talking about his journey into Hairstyling he shares, ‘For me it started as a child , I love to see women look beautiful and elegant and I noticed I was always weaving anything I see around me at some point. I picked up pieces and stitch them together to make a dress for my cousins doll and also style the dolls hair. So fast forward to 2007 when I gained admission into Olabisi Onabanjo where I studied sociology I decided to also turn my passion into my a big deal after lectures.’ He recently released a book on hairstyling titled, Secrets to Amazing Bridal Hairstyles. And he feels super proud about the masterpiece the book holds. On writing the book he shares, I sat and thought about it as there are days we run out of internet , some days we don’t have access to reach out to a stylist. So what’s the way forward?Having a DIY book would of course go a long way A book showing you all the steps and the products to use to achieve a beautiful hairstyle. So I came up with the secrets to amazing bridal hairstyles, and not only for clients. Even hairstylist who are having major problems or wants an upgrade needs to get a copy and I’m super happy so far for the love have received on the book and definitely working on something new as well.’ On what makes him exceptional as a stylist he states, ‘I’d say it’s my way of styling my clients. I consider so many things before our glam session. We sit down to have a discussion and draw a map and definitely end up to a good result.’