Adedayo Akinwale and Udora Orizu in Abuja The House of Representatives yesterday mandated its Committee on Reformatory Institutions to investigate the Nigerian Correctional Service for spending N613.5 billion in 10 years without commensurate welfare of inmates. The resolution followed the adoption of a motion sponsored by the House Minority Leader Hon. Ndudi Elumelu at plenary. Moving the motion, Elumelu noted that the Federal Government has appropriated over N613.5 billion to the Nigerian Correctional Service in the last 10 years, with a sum of N4 billion in 2015, N14 billion in 2016, N16.6 billion in 2017 and a higher sum of budgetary allocation in both 2018 and 2019, with each year having over 70% recurrent expenditure. He said the Federal Government spends an average of N17 billion annually on feeding of convicts and awaiting trial inmates in the 244 Correctional Services nationwide. He expressed concern that despite the huge and increasing annual budgetary allocations by the Federal Government to the Nigerian Correctional Service in recent years, the situation of the Correctional Service is characterised by poor feeding, widespread disease, poor medical attention, overcrowding and poor ventilation, thereby contributing to human rights violation of the inmates. Elumelu added that the inmates deserve good rehabilitation and reformation services in line with the United Nations Convention Against Torture. He said, ‘’A Correctional Service Centre, otherwise called a Prison, is a public institution established by government to provide rehabilitation, reformation and correctional facility services for individual offenders who have breached the law, with the ultimate goal of re-orienting and re-integrating them back into the society.’’ ‘’The Nigerian Correctional Service has not been operating and performing satisfactorily to its statutory duties, and instead of functioning as rehabilitation and reformation centres, the scenario has been that of dehumanizing situation and hardening of the inmates. The policy objective of the present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari on the Nigerian Correctional Service is to ensure total transformation to a modern reformatory institution, so as to enable it operate in line with international best practices.’’ ‘’Section 10 (h) of the Nigerian Correctional Service Act of 2019 is to the effect that the functions of the Custodial Service, inter alia, is empowering inmates, through the deployment of educational and vocational skills, training programmes and facilitating incentives and income generation through Custodial Centres, farms and industries as well as Section 24 of the same Act ensures best available healthcare for mental health of inmates in the criminal justice system.’’