Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has been tasked to seek peace with the warring members of his party, All Progressives Congress (APC), in order not to be scuttled the mission and vision of his administration through rancour and internal wrangling. A statesman, Prince Adeolu Tinubu, noted that the good vision Fayemi has for the state can only materialise under the atmosphere of peace and unity, not through chaos and unwarranted political squabbles that would make the Ekiti people the ultimate losers. Chieftains of the APC, Senators Dayo Adeyeye, Babafemi Ojudu and 13 others have been having a running battle with Fayemi over the control of the party in the state, which has caused a lot of tension recently. Commenting on the crisis yesterday in Emure Ekiti while interacting with some elders, Tinubu said Fayemi and politicians of the APC extraction must work in one accord for the state to be truly respected as a land of honour. He said politicians shouldn’t have the erroneous impression that all their grievances can be resolved by heating up the polity, saying such tendencies can only make the state ungovernable and decelerate the spate of development. “I appeal to the Governor Fayemi and the political leaders of APC as well as other parties to eschew discord and embrace peace. “The latest development where party leaders are locked in battles would only increase disunity in the state and retard the progress and development achieved in the state. “There is no meaningful progress that can be made under the climate of discord, unhealthy rivalry, violence and general disequilibrium. “Ekiti State is endowed with man power potential, and we are respected for our hard work and intelligence. Such potential will amount to nothing when not harnessed to effectively bring out greatness for our dear state. “Fayemi as the leader must live by example by reaching out to aggrieved individuals across party lines on the need to ensure a peaceful Ekiti State. “2022 governorship election is still very far. This is the right time for governance, and when time to play politics comes, they should all go out and reach out to our people to canvass for votes in a peaceful and civil manner,” he advised.