Bamidele Famoofo Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his counterpart in Ogun State have applauded the management of Investment One Financial Services Limited for the group’s contribution towards stopping the spread of the novel Corona virus pandemic in the States.
Investment One Financial Services Limited, an investment and financial services group, made a donation of 10,000 units of Investment One Branded Face Mask (cloth) to the governments of Lagos and Ogun States recently. Speaking about the rationale behind the donation, Group Managing Director of the company, Mr. Nicholas Nyamali, said, “it is one of our ways to give back to the society as a socially responsible organization. He said the company has always contributed towards improving the lives of Nigerians and will continue to do so.” Responding to the gesture of Investment One through a letter dated May 18, 2020, the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, said it was worthy of emulation by all responsible corporate organizations. The letter reads in part: “On behalf of the good people and the Government of Lagos State, I write to express my heartfelt appreciation for the outpouring of love and support received from your organization, as we continue to battle the ravaging Covid-19 disease as a State. Though this disease has take a heavy toll on global economies and it continues to have far-reaching negative socio-economic consequences on our own local economy, Lagos State, however, counts itself lucky to have such worthy allies and partners as yourself in its fight to contain and manage the disease. “In this vein, your generous donation of the following medical consumables is very much appreciated (Investment One Branded Face Mask (cloth)).
“Indeed, your kind gesture is highly commendable and truly worthy of emulation by all as it underscores my sincere belief that “United we stand; divided we fall’, while it will also deepen the public-private partnerships post Covid-19 and in the years ahead. While conveying the sincere appreciation of a grateful State, please accept my highest regards and best wishes, for yourself and members of your organization, always”, he added. Tokunbo Talabi, Secretary to the State Government, Ogun State, received the items which numbered 5,000 on behalf of the Governor with deep appreciation. He noted that the donation from Investment One to the State will go a long way to fight the menace of Covid-19.
Investment One is a diversified organisation that provides various financial and investment services all over Nigeria.
Since founded in 2007, Investment One continues to offer innovative investment options coupled with value added services in Nigeria’s financial services space. The group prides itself in providing first class services in the industry. “We are endowed with a team of investment professionals poised to provide clients with premium services founded on in-depth market insight, innovation and service excellence. Be it advising, executing, managing or transferring wealth to future generations, our Clients will find the full complement of investment solutions in our one-shop location – simply put, the 360° Investment Partnership,” Nyamali disclosed.