Barcelona fans will have to wait another year for Xavi to take over at the Nou Camp as he has signed a new contract at Al-Sadd. The 40-year-old has signed a new contract with the Qatari side for the 2020-21 season. The former midfielder responded to the announcement saying he is ‘happy’ to renew his contract and that he is working with the club’s management ‘on a number of issues, including the renewal of Akram Afif’s contract, and signing foreign players to replace Gabi and Marco Fabian.’ Xavi took over at Al-Sadd in 2019 in what is his first managerial role. During his first season, he won the Qatari Super Cup and the Qatar Cup. Though, he has previously admitted that it is his ‘dream’ to return to Barcelona as their manager. Xavi even claimed that he and his coaching staff are preparing to take charge of Barcelona in the future. Xavi had been touted as the next manager to take over the club, given current manager Quique Setien’s recent form. The 61-year-old has endured a tough tenure at the helm of the Catalan giants since replacing Ernesto Valverde in January. Under his tutelage, Barcelona have been knocked off the top of the table in Spain. They restarted their campaign two points clear of Real Madrid but now sit four points behind their rivals, that is if they defeated Villarreal in their late Sunday night game. Setien has even been forced to deny that he has lost the dressing room following reports of rising tensions between staff and players. It was believed that Xavi would be called in to take over from Setien next season but such a move will now have to be postponed. The midfield maestro is regarded as a legend at Barcelona, making 767 first-team appearances for the LaLiga giants, and joining the club aged 11 years before progressing through their world-renowned La Masia academy system. He won eight La Liga titles alongside three Copa del Rey crowns and four Champions League trophies in his total of 25 titles with the club. Given his success at the club, fans would be more than happy to see their former captain return to the Nou Camp as their manager.