By Laleye Dipo Former Niger State Governor, Dr Muazu Babangida Aliyu, the senator representing Niger East senatorial zone, Alhaji Sani Musa, and a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chairmanship aspirant, Alhaji Tanko Beji, are unanimous that more concerted efforts are required to surmount insecurity that has plagued parts of the state especially the Niger east senatorial zone in recent time. The front line politicians made the observations in separate felicitation messages to Muslims on the occasion of this year’s Eid-el -Kabir festival. The trio were concerned that insecurity has rendered many people in the state homeless and the youths jobless therefore more efforts should be made to check the dangerous trend. Aliyu said without security, there can never be development and progress, adding that it will be difficult for people to go about their normal lawful businesses. Aliyu charged Nigerians to remain prayerful and steadfast and pursue the ideals of one and indivisible Nigeria. On his part, Musa noted that the issue of banditry, kidnapping, especially in his senatorial zone, has lingered for too long, adding that his people could no longer go to their farms whereas it is the farming season. In a message signed by Musa’s Senior Legislative aide, Sagir Tafida, the senator opined that: “All hands must be on deck to ensure security of Niger East and the state in general, particularly by supporting the security agencies in the discharge of their responsibilities”. “Let’s seek the face of Allah for peace, unity and progress of our land. Eid-el Kabir should not just be a time to eat and drink but also a time to intercede for others just as Prophet Muhammad (SWA) did during his sojourning here on earth,” he said. Alhaji Beji, in a similar message, challenged the people to put the interest of the state and the country in their minds by joining in the battle to surmount all forms of insecurity in the state. Beji, who is seeking a second term as PDP state chairman in next week’s congress, admonished both Christians and Muslims to continue to live in peace with one another for the peace and development of the state. In line with the government directive, the prayers to mark this year’s eid sallah was said at the Minna central mosque and other designated mosques instead of the traditional eid prayer ground.