By Femi Solaja with agency report Super Falcons’ Captain and current African Footballer of the Year, Asisat Oshoala’s bolstering career at Barcelona Femeni may be short-lived should the current board of the club decide to toe the suggestion put forward by former President Sandro Rosell. Rosell, who was one of the best leaders the Spanish outfit ever had, proposed a quick fix solution to the club’s dwindling financial problems by suggesting that other sports units like the Barcelona Femeni, basketball and the rest arms of the Catalan sports club be scrapped to improve the situation at Camp Nou. Nigeria’s Oshoala is one of the leading figures of Barcelona’s female football team. The Barca Femeni just retained the league and are still in contention for the UEFA Champions League this season. They were runners up last season after a painful 1-4 loss to Lyon in the final match. But Rosell, in an interview with Spanish media, Diario Sport said: “Barcelona have too many things at hand at the moment. We have to sit down and analyse in-depth if we really need all the professional teams across all sports, the amateur teams, the Foundation,” observed the former chief of the Catalan club. Rosell went further: “If we don’t, we will lose out. We cannot cover everything, and everything that is not football causes us to lose competitive capacity with the big clubs in Europe, who are only dedicated to football. Someone has to be brave enough to do it,” stressed the former president. Barcelona are a multi-sports club consisting of several sports entities: including men’s football team, two Barcelona’s reserve teams, women’s football team, women’s football reserve team, men’s basketball team, women’s basketball team, futsal team, handball team, hockey team, ice hockey team, rugby team etc. Apparently, the former Barca chieftain wanted FC Barcelona to only consist of men’s football teamwhich sounds totally unfair to other sports entities. Unfortunately, Barcelona’s basketball team is the oldest club in the Spanish league. They have won 18 Spanish championships since 1926. While Barcelona Femeni, the club’s women’s football team, are one of the most successful sides in Spain. They have won the league title on five occasions. And pundits are already condemning the suggestion as been too harsh to get rid of other sports sections only because Barcelona’s men’s football team have been struggling recently. The football team which is the flagship of the Barcelona project, has been struggling lately with coach Quique Setien’s men four points behind rivals, Real Madrid after three consecutive La Liga tittles.