The insurgency in our nation has posed serious security challenges and has continued to pose a direct territorial challenge to Nigeria’s sovereignty. It therefore requires that solution be sought to safeguard the nation as national security is a premise for economic growth and development of Nigeria. Problems of insurgency across Nigeria have amplified the security challenges and at the sae time, the search for genuine and effective solutions to these security challenges have become imperative for every leader today. It is for this reason that the maiden Umaru Shinkafi Intelligence and Security Summit (USISS) is conceived and it will among other things assemblies Northern leaders to examine Insurgency, Banditry and Kidnapping. Conceived as Nigeria’s premier Intelligence and Security Summit, Umaru Shinkafi Legacy Foundation a non-profit humanitarian organisation with the support of its development partners, launched this maiden edition to help provide insights into current security challenges particularly in the Northern parts of the country and the country at large. Scheduled to take place on Thursday, 23rd July 2020 from 10 am to 1 pm, this webinar will highlight internal security challenges in terms of terrorism which is accentuated by violent extremism ideologies; separatist agitation and kidnapping for ransom; armed robbery; cattle rustling and banditry; religious, inter-ethnic and intra-communal crises. These security threats are commonly visible in Zamfara, Kastina, Borno, Sokoto states. Therefore, the discussion will mainly focus on proffering security solution in these states. The theme for the webinar is Insurgency, Banditry and Kidnapping: A Multifaceted Approach. The speakers on the webinar include Dr Muhammad Bello Matawalle Governor Zamafara State, Hon. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal Governor Sokoto State, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu Governor Kebbi State, Lt Gen A.B Dambazau Former Minister of Interior, Mal. Yusuf Bichi Magaji Director General, State Security Services, Mohammed Abubakar Adamu Inspector General of Police, A. S Adeleke Commandant National Institute for Security Studies, Chief Albert Horsefall Former Director State Security Services, Ms Farida Waziri Former Executive Chairperson, EFCC, Rev Matthew Hassan Kukah Bishop, Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, Dr Sheikh Ahmed Gummi Islamic Scholar, Dr Gani Adeniran Security Expert and the Father of the day is His Eminence Muhammad Saad Abubakar: The Sultan of Sokoto. Topics to be covered in the course of this webinar include: ·Improving situational awareness capabilities using open-source intelligence gathering and surveillance. ·Security challenges: community policing at the state level and the imperative of state police ·Strengthening internal security frameworks and community policing in Nigeria: models, policy options and strategies. ·Places and roles of traditional, community and religious leaders towards combatting insecurity. · Intelligence Sharing: The challenges among security agencies and Government, and the way forward. . Rugga initiative as a means of curving banditry activities in Northern Nigeria. This event which will be moderated by Mahmoud Jega, will focus on localising current local issues of intelligence and security in the Nigerian context. Attendees are asked to register to attend the webinar via this zoom link: https://bit.ly/SISS-NG Umaru Shinkafi Legacy Foundation is a non-profit humanitarian organization established in honour of nationalist, former top cop, lawyer and politician with a view to uphold his legacies in terms of charitable deeds, educational empowerment and quality security discourse (USISS). The foundation’s mission is committed to improving the conditions of national security through quality discourse; the state of education through relevant interventions and implementation of various acts of charity. And its vision is to enable and stimulate quality discourse in matters of national security, and making efficient interventions in education and charitable deeds across Nigeria and in the Sub Region.