Uchechukwu Nnaike Nigerian Breweries Plc has said that this year’s edition of the Maltina Teacher of the Year award is specifically to reward the resilient spirit of Nigerian teachers who have been unrelenting in finding new ways to continue to teach students virtually, despite technological challenges and limitations during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Corporate Affairs Director, Mrs. Sade Morgan, who announced the opening of entries for the sixth edition of the award recently in Lagos, said: “This demonstrates the important role teachers play in the development of our society and the education of our future leaders.” According to her, the Maltina Teacher of the Year is one of the ways the company fulfills and demonstrates its corporate philosophy of ‘Winning with Nigeria’, adding that the initiative is cherished and keenly supported by the management team who are passionate about education. “This is why we are committed and very happy to commence our annual search for the best secondary school teacher in Nigeria with the call for entry commencing on June 30 and closes on August 14, 2020. The winning and other qualifying teachers would be revealed by October in commemoration of the 2020 World Teachers’ Day. “We celebrate Nigerian teachers who continue to break new grounds and immeasurably contribute to the future of our great nation, by helping to groom and nurture the next generation.” Appreciating the project’s educational stakeholders; the Federal and State Ministry of Education, the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), All Nigeria Confederation of Principals of Secondary Schools (ANCOPSS), Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN) and the media, Morgan solicited their continued support to reach out to all teachers across the country to inform them of the flag off and how to submit their entries. Speaking on the prizes, Morgan said: “As with previous years, the winner will receive a total cash prize of N6.5 million as his/her reward, in addition to a trophy. N1 million as first prize winner, N500,000 as state champion and N1 million annually for the next five years, he/she also receives a capacity development training while his/her school receives either a block of classroom or a computer laboratory. Our inclusion of a computer laboratory is in recognition of the reality that now more than ever, digital capabilities are essential for Nigeria teachers in teaching students. “The first runner-up receives a trophy and N1 million, the second runner-up receives a trophy and N750,000, all state champions are rewarded with recognition plaques and a cash prize of N500,000 each.” She promised that the project team would continue to work with the reputable panel of judges to sustain the integrity of the initiative and ensure that the best teacher is identified and rewarded for excellence. Also speaking, the National Treasurer, Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Mr. Segun Raheem, applauded the company for its role in celebrating teachers through the initiative, assuring that the association would mobilize teachers across the country to participate in the 2020 MTOTY as part of its commitment to motivating and inspiring teachers all over Nigeria who are moving education forward despite the COVID-19 pandemic. “Such consistent investment on the part of Nigerian Breweries Plc is the hallmark of a good corporate organisation that has remained true to its ideals and commitment of improving the education sector,” he said. Maltina Teacher of the Year Initiative, established in 2015 and funded through the Nigerian Breweries-Felix Ohiwerei Education Trust Fund set up in 1994 to facilitate an active contribution to the development of the education sector in Nigeria, is in tandem with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 4. It aims to recognise and celebrate exceptional teachers in Nigeria for their contribution and impact on the future of the nation. The initiative is open to teachers in all secondary schools (public and private), across the six geopolitical zones and 36 states of the country, including the Federal Capital Territory. To participate, all eligible teachers are invited to log on to the dedicated website (www.maltinateacheroftheyear.com) to either complete the forms online or download the forms, complete, scan and email the completed form to maltinateacheroftheyear@heineken.com.