The Enugu State Government has promised to take care of a10-year-old female house help, Nneoma Nnadi, who was allegedly maltreated and injured by her guardians, Mrs. Ifeoma Ozougwu and her husband, Mr. Jude Ozougwu. The Commissioner for Gender Affairs and Social Development, Mrs. Peace Nnaji gave the assurance after visiting the victim at the hospital alongside the Chief Medical Director of Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT) Teaching Hospital, Prof. Hycienth Onah. Speaking after visiting the victim, the state government promised to offset her medical bills and ensure that the victim received adequate medical attention. Nneoma’s guardians had inflicted various degrees of injuries on the little child, which prompted their arrest by the Enugu State Police Command, and rescue of the victim – who is now receiving treatment at the ESUT Teaching Hospital, Parklane, Enugu. The state governor, Mr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi had consequently directed Nnaji, to visit the victim at the hospital to ensure that she receives proper medical attention. Consistent with Ugwuanyi’s directives, the commissioner empathised with the victim and her immediate family and promised them that the state government would not take the matter lightly. She said: “We can never sweep the case under the carpet. The dastardly act undermined the Child Rights Act. The Ugwuanyi administration spent millions of Naira, time and energy to enact in the collaboration with UNICEF, to make sure that every child in Enugu State is protected, given education, healthcare and right to life, among others. “The Enugu State government is not taking this lying low. The state government will take care of all the medical bills and everything concerning this girl”. Expressing shock at the ugly experience the traumatized little girl encountered in the hands of her guardians, Nnaji thanked the neighbours for bringing the cruel incident to public domain, describing them as “Good Samaritans”. Responding to the state government’s intervention, the mother of the victim, Mrs. Nnedinso Nnadi, expressed gratitude to Ugwuanyi for the state government’s concern and intervention. She said that it was a traumatic experience for the child and the entire family. He asked God to reward all those who came to the aid of their child. In his remark, the Chief Medical Director explained that the victim “is responding to treatment. Her chances of full recovery are high.”