Fadekemi Ajakaiye The International Facility Management Association, Nigeria Chapter, has lauded the Federal Government’s initiative of handing over the National Theatre, Iganmu, Lagos to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Banker’s Committee. The symbolic event which happened on Sunday, July 12 2020, is not only commendable but equally a step in the right direction. This was said by the Acting President of the Association, Mr. Segun Adebayo. According to him, this initiative of the Federal Government of Nigeria through the Ministry of Information and Culture, the Central Bank of Nigeria and the Banker’s Committee should also be extended to other National facility like the National Museum and National Stadium amongst others that are not been put into optimal use. While commending all parties including Lagos State Government, the Acting President also advise the Central Bank of Nigeria and Bankers Committee as critical parties the success of the project to activate the “Sustainability Road Map” through the proactive engagement of professional facility management process as they commence the revamping of the national monument. According to him, one of the challenges with the effective operation of National theatre was lack of professional management of the facility. I urge the driver of the project to begin with the end in mind by engaging professional facility management practitioner as part of the team of the consultants on the project. “Infact, IFMA, Nigeria Chapter is not only willing but equally ready to offer free professional services as our support towards the success of the project. This will guarantee the sustainability and positive impact on the economy through job creation and other associated value creation for the artisan and technicians” he summited. Earlier in the year, the Association celebrated the World Facility Management Day drawing attention to the significant contribution that FM makes to the global economy. This contribution of the FM Professionals impacts positively on the health, safety, productivity and well-being of everyone who utilises the built environment. Facility Managers create, operate and maintain conducive environments where people work, recreate and also reside across the world.