By Chuks Okocha Amid complaints from some of the party’s governorship aspirants in the election of a three-man ad-hoc ward delegates in Ondo State, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has appointed former Gombe State Governor, Ibrahim Dankwambo, as chairman of the state governorship appeal committee. In a statement issued by the National Organising Secretary of the committee, Col. Austin Akobundu (rtd), the committee is mandated to consider appeals arising from the conduct of the ward congresses for the upcoming 2020 governorship election in the state. Other members of the committee are Victor Kwon (secretary) and Rita Orji. The appeal committee is scheduled to sit on July 13, 2020, at the party secretariat in Akure, the state capital. Meanwhile, some of the governorship aspirants are accusing the Ondo State Deputy Governor, Ajayi Agboola, of bribing the elected ward delegates to his advantage. THISDAY gathered that there was a protest against the deputy governor after party members came out to protest claims that his agents were infiltrating the delegates’ list to change them to his favour. The party’s primary is due to hold on July 22, and the deputy governor just recently defected from the All Progressives Congress (APC) Some members of the party staged a protest at the Heritage Hotel, Alagbaka in Akure, where the PDP ad-hoc committee headquarters is. The protesters were alleged to have accused the deputy governor of trying to cut corners by bribing members of the PDP ad-hoc committee to doctor the list of delegates for the election. Their suspicion, THISDAY gathered, followed the sighting of a top associate of the deputy governor at the Heritage Hotel. Agboola’s spokesman, however, denied the allegations against the deputy governor. “The deputy governor is not a desperate politician; he is a lawyer and knows the rules of the game. The allegation of the protesters is nothing but falsehood against the person of the deputy governor. I can tell you it is not true,” he stated.