A fatal factory accident, which occured in the Ibadan factory premises of Expand Global Industries Limited, has claimed the life of one of its staff. Spokesperson of the company, who doubles as the Human Resources Manager, Aliyu Jibril, who disclosed this, expressed the company’s worry over the accident that led to the untimely death of the staff. In a statement released by the company and signed by Jibril, the company sympathised with the family of the deceased staff. According to the statement: “We deeply regret to announce that a colleague from an external third-party company was fatally injured in an incident that took place at our Ibadan plant on Tuesday, 28 July 2020. Our onsite emergency team immediately stopped all operations and promptly informed the relevant authorities of the incident. The local authorities arrived onsite within minutes to carry out the necessary investigations and safely transport the deceased to the morgue where an autopsy could be conducted. “The company is shocked and saddened by this loss and our deepest sympathies go out to the family and friends of the deceased. Representatives of the company met with the family along with representatives from the student council to express our deepest condolences. We will continue to engage with the family and provide the necessary support during this difficult time.” The statement said the company was working closely with the police and Ministry of Labour to ascertain the circumstances that led to this tragic incident. According to Jibril, “Both departments are proceeding with external investigations into this matter and we are conducting our own internal investigation into the safety protocols observed. We understand that there may be queries from concerned stakeholders towards this tragic incident. Please be rest assured that further information will be shared once available. “Production at site remains suspended until further notice. The safety and health of our people is of utmost importance to us. Our company has stringent safety protocols in place to ensure that every employee operates in a safe working environment.”