King Akan in Abuja With the federal government giving green light to hotels to reopen based on the guidelines rolled out by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Nigeria’s leading hotel brand, Transcorp Hilton Abuja, has introduced Hilton CleanStay; an initiative it believes would improve guests entire stay experience from a cleanliness point of view. This was disclosed during a media parley which held recently at Transcorp Hilton Abuja to showcase the enhanced safety measures at Transcorp Hilton Abuja in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking at the event, Kevin Brett, General Manager, Transcorp Hilton Abuja, elaborated on Hilton CleanStay, revealing the new standard of hotel cleanliness and safety measures being taken to ensure guests enjoy a clean and safe stay. “Developed to meet evolving consumer expectations during the COVID-19 pandemic, Hilton CleanStay provides guests with assurance and peace of mind when they stay in our Hotel, or at any of Hilton’s more than 6,100 properties. “Our hotel team members are receiving ongoing briefings and enhanced training and operating protocols to serve our guests better. Adding that, in alignment with this commitment, Transcorp Hilton Abuja is rolling out Hilton CleanStay, to deliver an industry-defining standard of cleanliness and disinfection in the hotel. “Our elevated processes and team member training have been developed with Reckitt Benckiser (RB), maker of Lysol and Dettol, to help our guests enjoy an even cleaner and safer stay from check-in to check-out.” Also speaking, Ijeoma Osuji, Public Relations & Marketing Executive, Transcorp Hilton Abuja, reiterated that the safety and security of guests and team members remained the highest priority of Transcorp Hilton Abuja. According to her, “we will continue to build upon the already high standards of housekeeping and hygiene at Hilton properties worldwide. We remain diligent in our commitment to provide a safe, hospitable environment for all who enter our doors.” Some of the new safety measures introduced include a Hilton CleanStay Room Seal to indicate that a room has not been accessed since being thoroughly cleaned and disinfected. Also, flexible housekeeping options are available for guests and there is increased focused disinfection of the top 10 high touch areas in guest rooms, like light switches and door handles. There is also an increased cleaning and disinfection frequency of public areas, the fitness centre and provision of hygiene stations at entrances and high traffic areas. Operational changes have also been made to the restaurants, bars, in-room dining and meeting spaces.