The Organier of Africa’s Most prestigious Health and Safety Award (AfriSAFE) has announced a cash gift of $1000 dollars for the lucky winner of AfriSAFE Young Innovator Award sponsored by SMTS Limited and Society of Women in Safety, Health and Environment, Africa (SOWESHE-A), among other prices for innovation. In a statement signed by the Chief Coordinator of AfriSAFE, Femi Da-Silva, this year’s AfriSAFE has been dedicated to celebrate organizations, individuals or groups who have and are working outstandingly to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. According to Da-Silva, he explained that the award event, which is slated for October 11, 2020, will be held virtually, in line with global standards for social distancing and large gatherings. Among awards that would be presented at the event, the AfriSAFE Young Innovator Award sponsored by SMTS and SOWSHE-A, stands specially to recognize young individuals who have created innovative inventions to address the unique challenges presented by COVID-19 in their environment. On the award, which is the first of its kind, the Chief Coordinator said, “As an Health and Safety communication organization full of young minds, we believe that innovation is critical in solving many of the health and safety issues we face in our society today.” “The AfriSAFE Young Innovation award price of 1000 USD sponsored by SMTS and SOWSHE-A will be given to any young person or collaborative effort from across Africa by young persons of not more than 25 years of Age who have created innovative inventions to address the unique challenges presented by COVID-19 in their environment. This will be given to support their innovation among other support from HSENation,” he said. Participants of the award category are expected as part of the process of scrutiny to submit original and unaltered patents by participants. Other award categories that will be presented at the event include the AfriSAFE CEOs Award: which recognises top executives that have displayed verifiable commitment to the health, safety and wellbeing of staff and subordinates; the AfriSAFE Icon of The Year: which recognises government leaders with the best response to the Covid-19 pandemic who have demonstrated outstanding commitment and impact in curtailing the spread of the pandemic. Also among the award categories include the AfriSAFE Merit Award, which recognises employers that have implemented novel ideas and strategies in the workplaces to ensure the prevention, management, and containment of COVID-19, among other categories. Da-Silva further noted that nominations for AfriSAFE, which “has been open since July, will come to an end on August 7, as the event is slated for October 11. Nomination can be done via www.afrisafe.org.” AfriSAFE 2020 is sponsored by the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH), the world’s largest chartered membership body for Safety and Health professionals; Hybrid Group, Combined Training Solutions, Eximia Realty and Surveillance Fire Ltd, among other supporters.