Popular Nigerian internet sensation, Gbadamosi Agbonjor Jonathan better known as MC Edo Pikin has continued to rise and make remarkable impact in the Nigerian entertainment industry. MC Edo Pikin is a comedian, actor, compere, event planner and content provider. He is the C.E.O of Every Package Entertainment and also the producer and organizer of MCEDOPIKIN UNDILUTED; an annual comedy show. MC Edo Pikin started his comedy career in 2004 in Agenebode and continued in Abuja from 2007 to 2009. He later headed to Ekpoma, Edo state from 2009- 2013 and Kwara state from 2014-2015. After his NYSC, the Funny man settled in Edo state as a comedian till date. MC Edo Pikin’s immediate elder brother Gbadamasi Bernard AKA Kobobo Master inspired him into comedy. Talking about getting into comedy he shares, “As a child, whenever my brother who was staying with my Aunty in the neighboring village, returns home for holiday, before we sleep he would tell us some of the jokes he watched on television. Sadly, at that time, we had no television. So, I’d beg him to tell me more whenever he is around.
Then, when I started secondary school, I told many of my classmates most of the jokes that my brother told me. Coupled with the fact that I was good in throwing shades at others in school, after my performance in one of our social Fridays in 2004 , the whole teachers in school started calling me a comedian. That was how I got established till date. My talent became a lucrative business for me. I was motivated by hunger and bills to start demanding money for it.” He has won several awards for his creativity and comic acts which includes and not limited to; Creative Personality of the year by Nigeria Entrepreneur Award, Upcoming Online Sensation of the year by Nigeria Teen Choice Awards, Best Online Comedian of the year by Naija 102.7FM, Most promising comedian of the year by Naija 102.7 FM, Most creative comedian of the year by Exclusive Entertainment Gospel Awards,
Recognition award for his contribution to humanity and society in general by Post Graduate Students of University of Benin, The most trendy comedian of the year by Glamour Awards, Comedian of the year by I-Glide concept and a lot more.