By Ebere Nwoji The outgoing President of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN), Mr. Eddie Efekoha, has said among all achievements he recorded as the president of the institute in the past two years, his effort and success in ensuring that members of the institute acquired cutting edge skills gave him utmost satisfaction. Efekoha, will on Wednesday July 15, 2020 exit, having completed his two years tenure as the president of the institute. Speaking in an interview with the media, he said during his tenure as CIIN President, there was growth and development in the intellectual capacity of CIIN members and also the infrastructure of the CIIN; by extension, the College of Insurance and Financial Management which is the training arm of the industry. “While the relationship between the institute and the CII UK was strengthened and among some of the fruits therefrom were revision of syllabus and the domestication of CII textbooks which were launched in June 2020, the institute’s mentorship programme was actualised with the organisation of an inaugural bootcamp where industry leaders shared experiences with young professionals with the aim of inspiring them to strive for greater achievements,” he said. Furthermore, he said the college has become the focal point for human capital development for insurance industry in Nigeria, adding that this was evidenced by the partnership between the College and National Insurance Commission(NAICOM) which resulted in the first-ever Insurance Directors Conference and recently in the Actuarial Development Programme. “Hence, the institute, more than ever before, effectively delivered on its statutory duties during my tenure. “This is not forgetting the tremendous infrastructural development at the college. The College campus now has a standard tennis court, well-furnished accommodation both for students, staff and visitors,” he noted. Disclosing that CIIN, recently commenced the construction of an auditorium, a N300 million project kicked off in November 2019 for which an initial seed fund of N100 million was immediately provided, Efekoha, added that, during his tenure, there was the active advocacy for the adoption and implementation of compulsory insurance at various levels of government and which took the institute to various states within the country.