Deyemi Benson alerts stakeholders in the Peoples Democratic Party, Lagos State Chapter of subtle moves to replace Princess Abiodun Oyefusi in the impending Lagos East Senatorial election, following the passage of Senator Gbenga Osinowo, which created a vacancy. Oyefusi was the PDP candidate in the same contest in the 2019 national elections The 2019 elections have come and gone but we must be bold enough to ask questions and educate the people generally on the need to always protect their votes. Comparing results signed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) agents to what the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) announced simply confirmed real ‘concoctions’ of results. Some of the ‘concocted’ results in some specific local government areas in favour of the All Progressives Congress (APC) outnumbered the total number of registered voters. The entire arrangement was a total sham which didn’t reflect the true wishes of the people for their preferred elected candidate. Apart from the illegal ‘arithmetic’ of INEC, numerous multiple voting was a ‘normal thing’ all around. Whichever way, Ikorodu, that produced the PDP candidate, Princess Abiodun Oyefusi had over 15,000 ‘concocted’ scores added to ‘helping’ the APC candidate to win. Same was also done in Kosofe Local Government Area. Considering the poor ‘arithmetical’ scope of these manipulators, the total number of votes declared in some of these Local Government Areas were far above the total no of registered voters. This is not just absurd but very crazy! Princess Oyefusi was massively supported by the people of Ikorodu and other areas under the Lagos East. She won a few wards, won her own polling unit and numerous adjoining polling units around her ward in Ikorodu. Her support base cut across party lines. This is quite encouraging. She sincerely did very well and kudos must be given to everybody that made it real. For her brilliant showings during the 2109 elections, the PDP National Headquarters appreciated her via a letter written and tagged; ‘Message of Hope and Congratulations’ for making the PDP very proud. As a public analyst, I will simply advise that the coming election is winnable if the PDP won’t allow ego, infiltrators and intra-party crises beneficiaries to hijack the system. They must learn to work as a team and ensure that wasteful spendings across board by all aspirants for the task ahead are prevented. *Comrade ‘Deyemi Benson writes from Ikorodu