As the COVID-19 pandemic takes turns on global economy, demand for personal effects has gone high, creating a variety of pricing challenges. But as a Startup with eyes on long-term value rather than short-term gain, Njalo.ng has enabled sellers to offer the best prices to buyers, most of who have lost their jobs or financially down but need to protect themselves against the pandemic. Launched on January 6, 2020, Njalo.ng, a classifieds platform empowers millions of individuals and businesses in Nigerian with free access to sell smartphones, cars, laptops, clothes, shoes, bags, property, furniture, books/literature, and kiddies’ clothes, among others. As COVID-19 crisis is exerting sudden and unprecedented pressures—sometimes up, but more often down—on demand and pricing, it offers sellers a door to reach out to buyers by offering free placement of items and promoting such products across social media channels at no charge to the sellers. Expatiating on the why they chose to support sellers, the Chief Operating Officer of Njalo.ng, Mrs. Sandra Ani, said, although it was difficult to take a long-term view during a crisis of this nature, they expected that the sellers that emerge in the strongest positions would be those now taking a “through-cycle” view of their relationships with customers and the communities where they do business as part of an integrated approach with marketing and sales. She said Njalo.ng’s step is in line with the federal government and various state governments’ call for support from the companies to assist with palliatives, especially in the fight against covid-19. She said, “When Covid-19 was first reported in Nigeria in February 2020 and the subsequent lockdown in Abuja (FCT), Lagos and Ogun States respectively, nobody thought it was going to take this long before the economy opened up again. Just a few days ago the government announced that Students should get prepared for WAEC only to re-announce that Nigerian students are not likely for year 2020 WAEC examinations. “So, at Njalo.ng, our aim is actually to empower as many people as possible, but not like directly donating Facemasks or Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to everybody, because the number is much. We thought of the best possible way to do this and we discovered that people have the need for quality products and secondly, at the best price. “Suffice to say we are empowering the people to stay safe or contain the spread of coronavirus by offering SMEs the platform to sell personal protective equipment (PPE) to millions of Nigerians. Interestingly, our support here is that you do not have to pay to sell on Njalo.ng; we shoulder that for you. We are extending our hands to more merchants, SMEs and entrepreneurs to use this opportunity to make ends meet.” She said that Njalo.ng has deployed a robust Customer-Care team to attend to the needs of both sellers and buyers. “This is why Njalo.ng’s slogan is Easy Sell, Easy Buy. We make life easy for you”, Ani added. According to her, Njalo.ng also encourages sellers to sell WHO (World Health Organisation’s) recommended PPE products as a means to curtail the spread of the virus.