Francis Sardauna in Katsina The federal government yesterday said that the ongoing war against insurgents and bandits was not for military and other security agents alone, hence the need for support from all and sundry to enable the country to overcome the security threats. Also yesterday, the federal government said it was working hard to end the lingering insurgency, banditry and other criminal activities bedeviling North-east and North-west regions of the country.
The Minister of Defence, Maj.-Gen. Bashir Magashi, gave the assurance yesterday during the Nigerian Army honours and award ceremony in Faskari Local Government Area, Katsina State. He said the federal government would continue to demonstrate political will and determination towards eradicating insurgency and other forms of criminalities in the country.
He noted that the current security challenges would soon be over, noting that the federal government was doing everything possible to tackle the menace. He, therefore, urged Nigerian soldiers not to relent, but work assiduously until peace is restored in all troubled spots across the country to enhance development.
According to him, the ongoing war against insurgents and bandits is not for military and other security agents alone. All and sundry should support the military to overcome the security threats. The defence minister urged the soldiers in the theatre of operations to discharge their obligations in accordance with existing laws of engagement and constitutional provisions. He said: “Let me use this opportunity to reiterate Mr. President’s absolute determination towards achieving success in the fight against insurgents and other forms of criminalities in the country. “I urge you not to rest but continue to work assiduously towards containing the lingering threats to our national security until peace and security is restored to all troubled spots in this country. “We will continue to demonstrate the political will and determination to ensure that insurgency and other criminalities are totally eradicated in our dear country,” the defence minister said.
Earlier, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai, said the country had in the last decade witnessed unprecedented security challenges. He said the nation’s capital was also subjected to frequent bombing attacks while major cities like Kano, Kaduna, Jos and Maiduguri were also not spared from the deadly attacks.
He, however, said the measures taken under his leadership in the last five years, had tremendously enhanced the security of lives and properties of the citizenry in cities hitherto captured by the insurgents.