By Yinka Olatunbosun Isaac Geralds, a singer and finalist at the music reality show, Project Fame, has released his debut album titled “Love and Heartbreak’’ on July 2. The singer who has relocated to the US is famed for hit singles such as Fall in Love (2017), This Christmas (2018), Shakara (2019) and Just Incase (2019). He had held an album listening party in 2019 at the Hard Rock Café, Lagos and the event attracted other musicians such as Mike Aremu, Timi Dakolo, Sound Sultan amongst others. An Instagram listening party was the Launchpad for this much anticipated album which features some of his hit songs. Love and Heartbreak album also parades collaborative tracks with Iceberg Slim, Tiwa Savage, Sound Sultan and Sound Iyke. While reflecting on how his music has grown over the years, Geralds expressed his optimism in his effort to break into the US market. “The truth is that my music is universal and so it was really a blessing for me to have such wide acceptance on this side of the world. I also started a collective called “Horns and Harmony’’ with amazing saxophonist Shola Iyiola and we have put up a couple of shows that have been sold out,’’ he said. Meanwhile, the onslaught of Covid-19 on nightlife may have slowed things down a bit for most artists. Geralds explained how he is navigating through the pandemic to stay creative. “The pandemic hit the world hard and like everyone else in my line of work, we’ve had to take our business online and so it’s been challenging but the goal is to come out on the other side of COVID alive and better than before,’’ he remarked. He added that the little break from the stage is also a good time for self-evaluation, performance improvement and the acquisition of new skills. For him, it is an appropriate time to focus on other important aspects of life such as family. Although his emotional lyrics may not have been drawn from personal experiences, there are a few songs on the album that are dedicated to his wife. “Ewaoluwa and the one I wrote for her when she gave birth to our son, Jason Thank God for You are some of the songs on the album. Fatherhood has just made me appreciate the world a lot more, puts the burden of responsibility on me and gives me a broader view of life,’’ said the father of two boys. The 9-track album has songs from a variety of music genres such as R&B, Afrobeats and swing. “My music has no boundaries and so in and out of Nigeria, my drive is the same, to get my music to the world as far as possible. The drive is just more intense,’’ he added.