Segun James Following the spate of insecurity in the country, the Olowu of Kuta in Osun State, Oba Adekunle Oyelude Makama, has advocated for increased funding for security agencies, even as he called for a synergy among the agencies in order to defeat Boko Haram terrorists. Oba Makama, who made the call at a press conference after an interface with Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) in Lagos yesterday, said there was need for increased funding for the Nigerian Army as well as the battle against the insurgency. He also called for synergy on intelligence gathering and sharing among the security agencies in order to nip any form of crisis that would result to national upheaval in the bud. The event, which was attended by the Media Law Centre (MLC), Lagos Island Vanguard Campaign Against Impunity (LIVCAI), Centre Against Injustice and Domestic Violence (CAIADV), Grassroots Democratic Initiative (GDI), Centre for Human and Socio- Economic Rights (CHSR), Community Women Initiative (CWI), Activists for Good Governance (AGG) and M and M Initiative among others, was in commemoration of the Nigerian Army Day celebration. The traditional ruler noted that the country was currently passing through an unusual situation, arguing that Nigeria’s defence budget should be more than that of South Africa, which was not at war, declaring that Nigerian army needs more funding. This was just as he further argued that countries that were at peace fund their military more in preparation for emergencies. According to him, “The defence budget of Nigeria should be more than that of South Africa, which is not at war. They (Nigerian army) need more funding; countries that are at peace fund their military more in preparation for emergencies. We need adequate funding for our military.” He stressed that there should be conscious efforts towards rebranding the Nigerian army, noting that it was also resolved that the army be allowed to face its primary assignment of defending the territorial integrity of the country squarely through improved professionalism. The Oba said there was always the need for confidence-building between the army and the civil populace, declaring that the era of military rule has gone, therefore, the need for the citizens to begin to see the Nigerian army as the people’s army and not army of occupation. The Kabiyesi, who described himself as an advocate of support for the country’s armed forces, argued that achieving this turn-around would enable the citizens see the Nigerian army as their own and assist it to flush out miscreants and other undesirable elements from communities across the country. While wishing the Nigeria army a successful Army Day celebration, Oba Makama rejoiced with the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. General Tukur Yusuf Buratai, on what he described as the milestone achievements so far recorded under his leadership. Also speaking, Sina Loremikan of LIVCAI, Declan Ihekiare of GDI) and Funmi Bolade Ajayi of CHSR advocated for more funding for the Nigerian Army to enable it discharge its duties of protecting the territorial integrity of the country as well as defeat the terror groups within the country.