James Sowole in Akure A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr Eyitayo Jegede has emerged the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for the October 10, 2020 Gubernatorial Election of Ondo State. Jegede, who was the PDP candidate for the 2016 Gubernatorial Election of the state scored 888 votes to defeat his close rival, Mr Agboola Ajayi, who scored 657 votes. The results of the election contested by eight aspirants was announced by the Chairman of the Ondo State PDP Gubernatorial Primary, Governor Ifeanyin Ugwuanyi, of Enugu State. Ajayi, who is the Deputy Governor of the state, defected from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to the PDP on June 20,2020 and was cleared by the PDP for 2020 Gubernatorial Primary. The keenly contested Election was held at the State International Event Centre, The Dome, amidst tight security provided by men and officers of the Nigeria Police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and the Department of State Security (DSS). The results of other aspirants as announced by Ugwuanyin are Dr Eddy Olafeso (175 votes), Dr Bode Ayorinde (95 votes), Mr Banji Okunomo (90 votes), Chief Olusola Ebiseni (39 votes) Senator Boluwaji Kunlere (33 votes) and Mr Godday Erewa (14 votes). The total number of invalid votes is 64. The voting process, which started around 2::00 pm, was halted for more than one and half hours when a list containing 11 names of former House of Assembly members emerged. Some of the aspirants objected when the Chairman of the Primary Committee wanted to bring them in to vote after delegates from the 18 local governments had voted. However, the list was accepted after due consultation with all the aspirants. Prior to the commencent of the voting, commotion ensued at the entrance of the venue of the primary, when two men were caught with thumbprinted ballot papers. The ballot, whichever were later found to be specimen to educate delegates, were thumb printed in favour of the Deputy Governor of the state, Mr Agboola Ajayi. As the men were caught with the printed ballots, angry mob descended on the two men, tore their clothes and beat them silly. The timely intervention of security men at the venue saved the men from being lynched and the situation was thereafter brought under control.