The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) has announced plan to adopt remote proctoring for the conduct of its professional banking and certification examinations. According to a statement released by the Head Corporate Communication and External Relations, Mr. Nelson Olagundoye the new examination mode which would commence in April 2021, is in line with the strategic intent of the Institute to stay ahead of the curve.
The governing council, the highest decision making body of the institute had given its approval to the initiative that will further position it as a foremost and world class professional body. “Remote Online Proctoring is the digital and live form of assessment which enables candidates to write their examinations online in a remote location of their choice duly certified and surveillance- monitored as cheat free to ensure the integrity and sanctity of the exams. “Students must confirm their identity and location which will be closely monitored via a live webcam/video proctored software throughout the course of the examination,” the statement added.
He further explained that the proctored examination would ensure the identity of the candidates, flag any irregular behaviour, scan and ensure the integrity of examinee’s environments as well as detect any instances of fraud or suspected violations of the rules by the candidates. Olagundoye, also said the move was adopted in response to the pandemic which has significantly disrupted the examinations of professional bodies all over the world. “Online proctored exams are also rapidly gaining relevance in the certification and professionalisation industry. More professionals are seeking ways to earn professional certification with ease. Institutions in the knowledge space are interested in digital solutions that will enable them to enhance the examination experience for their candidates in line with global best practice,” the statement added. Some professional bodies had postponed their examinations from March till date as a result of the total lockdown of economic and social activities occasioned by the pandemic. “It is believed that the new examination mode would allow the institute to increase the frequency of its examinations and the geographical spread of the candidates. “The institute has always been a trail blazer as it was the first professional body in Nigeria to fully migrate its examinations to Computer Based Testing (CBT) platform in 2018.”