By Segun James Lagos State government has fixed August 3 for the reopening of schools for students in Senior Secondary 3 and Tech 3. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who announced this Friday during his 16th briefing on the Coronavirus as the chief incident commander, said Junior Secondary 3 students will wait for assessment for one week before resumption. Governor Sanwo-Olu said Primary Six pupils will be graded by their already recorded Continuous Assessment (CA) to pass over to secondary schools. He said students in transitional classes, who have mandatory public exams ahead of them were the ones permitted to resume for revision classes and examination. He however added that the reopening applies to only Day Schools, in both public and private, while boarding schools remain shut. “All educational establishments are to follow established public health guidelines and protocol for reopening the schools for these categories of students,” he said, reiterating that all schools and educational institutions still remain closed. He added that government supports online teaching of curriculum during this period in tertiary institutions. Sanwo-Olu said: “Students in transitional classes, who have mandatory public exams ahead of them, are now permitted to resume for revision classes and examination. All education establishments are to follow established public health guidelines and protocol for re-opening the schools for these categories of students. The commencement date for this opening will be on August 3, 2020, for SSS 3 and TEC 3 students only. Dates for JSS 3 schools’ re-opening for revision classes and examinations will be announced in due course. “The permission to opening will apply only to Day-Schooling; boarding activities are not permitted at this time. School Authorities are expected to spend the period between now and the day of re-opening to put in place infrastructure, protocols and essential items required to comply with all hygiene, safety and physical distancing requirements. “Our tertiary institutions are to continue their online academic activities which are at various advanced stages. For Primary Six, we are using Continuous Assessment to determine how they graduate into JSS 1. We are doing this to slow down risk factors and manage the situation in measure.” Lagos schools were shut in March to curb the spread of COVID-19.