An Islamic society, Nasrul-lahi-li Fatih (NASFAT) has announced the birthing of HAVEK Leadership Academy, established to teach leadership skills, address mindset issues, as well as develop exceptional leaders based on sound Islamic values and ethics. HAVEK, crafted from Haven of Knowledge, is an incorporated entity focused on developing minds based on Islamic leadership principles and is expected to bridge the gap of non-availability of Islamic ethics, values and culture-based leadership schools and programmes in Nigeria. According to the pioneer Chairman of HAVEK, Mr. Niyi Yusuf, the academy is a deliberate initiative of NASFAT, aimed at honing and producing responsible young leaders based on global best practice and Islamic principles in governance, ethics and values for a desirous future that guarantees sustainable and impactful leadership. Yusuf added that HAVEK is guaranteed and envisioned to integrate a combined curriculum of management, leadership development, missionary, entrepreneurship, citizenship and vocational training skills towards breeding well-grounded, resourced, committed, diligent and God-fearing leaders for the future. “It is hoped that HAVEK will soon become the most respected leadership development academy in Nigeria and beyond, following in the footsteps of NASFAT. More importantly, contributing to the growth and development of ethical based and principled driven leadership thus positively contributing to the creation of a better world.” The academy is said to have an ambition of training 1,500 young leaders in its first year and 1,000,000 by the end of its 10th year of operations in 2030 through its various virtual and offline programmes, including certificate courses, seminars, workshops, conferences, periodicals, articles, journals and book readings focused on leadership and Islamic ethics. HAVEK’s operations will be managed by a team of experts with the support of a governing board of respected and tested leaders across the private-public sector and missionary, including Sesan Kareem, Mr. Fatai Olayemi, Alhaji Alaba Olalekan, Alhaji AbdulLateef AbdusSalam, Hajia Shereefah Ajibola-Adeola, Alhaji Abdurrahman Abdulwahab, Dr. Rahmat Adetutu Adisa, Dr. Nasir Raji Mustapha and Alhaja Foluke Abdulrazaq in its quest to become a leading leadership development centre in Africa.