Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The National Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that the party is unperturbed by the recent defections by some members in Ondo State ahead of the governorship election. Recently, the state Deputy Governor, Mr. Agboola Ajayi, and the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Ifedayo Abegunde, defected from the party. However, while speaking at the inauguration of the state governorship screening and appeal committees yesterday in Abuja, the National Secretary of the committee, Senator John Udoedehe, said personal ambition could often lead people to act unreasonably. According to him, “In the last few months, our party has been rocked by crisis in several states, including Ondo, where the deputy governor and the former SSG defected to other parties to seek platforms to contest for the governorship election. “We should all be aware that personal ambition could often lead people to act unreasonably, and in a manner skewed towards personal, rather than collective interest, as in this case. “As a party, we should, however, not be swayed from our avowed course because our party was founded on the principles of fairness and natural justice, and we should ensure that we uphold these fundamental pillars.” Udoedehe assured the aspirants, who have indicated interest to fly the flag of the party in the forthcoming governorship elections, that they would be subjected to the fair, credible and transparent standards in the nomination process. He noted that the members of the committees have been found to be persons worthy of trust, hence, the reason why they were saddled with the onerous task of screening all the aspirants and subsequently providing a platform for those who are not satisfied with the screening, to appeal the outcome of the exercise. Udoedehe stressed that the actions of the committee in this regard could either make or mar the party’s image, while urging the committees to proceed in the strength of their mandate, bearing in mind that the reward for satisfactory performance is promotion. Responding, the Chairman of the Screening Committee, Mr. Tijjani Tumsa, warned all the 12 aspirants in the race to make the assignment easy by furnishing the committee with adequate information. He added that the committee chairman had noted that the party has too many crises on its hands to settle than to ignite another misunderstanding through disqualification of aspirants.