Leading consumer goods company, Procter & Gamble (P&G), continued its Protect Our Heroes missions to support Nigeria government’s efforts against COVID-19 with the donation of over 100 handwashing stations and 8,000 Safeguard soaps to the Lagos state government. Through this donation, P&G has partnered with the Office of Civic Engagement to promote Lagos state’s handwashing campaign through the installation of these handwashing stations in public areas such as markets, hospitals and local government offices in all the local government areas of the state. Earlier in April, Procter & Gamble committed over 90 million Naira worth of humanitarian package to support the government in combating COVID-19. This intervention included hygiene products, handwashing stations and personal protective equipment for frontline healthcare workers across the 36 states and a nationwide media awareness campaign to promote handwashing amongst Nigerians. Speaking at the official handover ceremony, P&G’s Senior Director for Africa for Global Government Relations and Public Policy, Dr. (Mrs.) Temitope Iluyemi said, “We appreciate the efforts of the Lagos state government to curb the COVID-19 pandemic so far. As a force for good in the communities where we live and work, P&G is honored to partner with the Lagos State Government through the Office of Civic Engagement, to promote handwashing in the state.” “As you know, handwashing remains one of the frontline defenses against infectious diseases including COVID-19, and, remains more important as more people return to work and schools resume. Our donation of handwashing stations will promote this practice while driving habit change amongst Nigerians. As an organization committed to touching and improving lives, we believe we have an important role to play in protecting the heroes in the frontline of this pandemic and our consumers” added Dr. (Mrs.) Iluyemi. In his remarks, the Deputy Governor of Lagos state, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat added that “The COVID-19 pandemic has made handwashing facilities more critical than ever. Handwashing campaign remains an essential component of our framework for COVID-19 prevention and eradication. As a result, Procter & Gamble’s donation of handwashing stations and soaps is very timely given the recent easing of the nationwide lockdown. On behalf of the Executive Governor of Lagos, I thank P&G for this display of exemplary citizenship towards our fight against the pandemic.” Also commenting at the handover event, the Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor on Civic Engagement, Princess Aderemi Adebowale, noted that these handwashing stations will be installed in high-risk areas such as hospitals, markets and schools across all local government areas in Lagos state. She further urged Lagosians to utilize these stations for regular handwashing and to promote personal hygiene. P&G has a long history of supporting our communities in times of need all around the world. Since the onset of the COVID-19 outbreak, P&G globally has stepped up its commitment to be a force for good and have been working with long-standing partner organizations to provide support to communities, relief agencies and people impacted by this challenging situation. So far, globally P&G’s in-kind, product and monetary donations add up to tens of millions of dollars across more than 200 relief organizations, more than 30 brands in more than 30 countries.