Emma Okonji Technology experts have advised businesses to enhance the adoption of cloud computing. They explained that cloud computing has the potential to accelerate growth of the about 41 million SMEs in the country, and could enable rapid governance on the part of government. The experts gave the advice at a recent webinar hosted by CyberCloud, an indigenous service provider, with the theme: “The New Normal: Future of Cloud Computing in Nigeria Post COVID-19. While advising businesses to device means to continue serving their customers adequately, the experts concluded that one clear cut platform through which it could be achieved was through cloud computing. Some of those in attendance included the Director General, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Kashifu Inuwa; Managing Director, RackCentre, Ayotunde Coker; Partner Technology Advisory, KPMG, John Anyanwu; Chief Information Officer, First City Monument Bank, Collins Osugo and National Coordinator, NITDA, Barrister Kasim Sodangi. According to Coker, “Cloud Computing are services that you consume over the internet, regardless of its location. It’s a service you can subscribe to and consume as you require, you scale as you grow and you pay as you go.” He further stated that CyberCloud and Rack center have the capacity to provide all cloud services needed by the government, corporate bodies and individuals. Speaking on the development, Anyanwu said Cloud services have always been a part of our lives without us knowing it.
Anyanwu said several people have been using the likes of Google Mail, Yahoo, and so many services that are in the cloud and “we have been enjoying these services for our personal lives without even knowing what we are using.” He further said ‘’Cloud gives a huge opportunity for us to facilitate innovation with low capital investment.” Describing how Cloud Services are utilised by the government, Sodangi said as far back as 2013, NITDA issued a guideline for National Content Development in Information Technology (IT). According to him, one of the guidelines specifically speaks to the retention and domestication of Data Services of the government needs rising from the operation of government and data that is owned by government must be hosted locally. He said ‘’Cloud services will sufficiently improve how services are delivered in Nigeria and change the face of the public sector if it is understood and implemented as it ought to be. Osugo stated that ‘’Banks have been in the forefront of Cloud Computing,” but he however said for banks to have the confidence to host and work with local providers, there are certain criteria that needed to be met. He added, ‘’Once the government plays its significant role in making sure adequate infrastructures are in place and the companies like KPMG, VMware accesses the risk and ensure that the skills required to manage these services are also in place, then the sky’s the limit.” VMware Senior Manager Cloud Business, Dave Funnell, said ‘’Interrogate your cloud provider because not all cloud providers are equal and can deliver the services you require. However, the certification Vmware provides Cybercloud should help build the element of trust and trust is key because Cloud Computing is the way to accelerate a business.’’
He further said that Cloud remained an enabler to fast forward to the future and that working with a cloud provider that is reputable could really enable businesss. From his perspective, the MD, Cyberspace Limited, concluded by urging the attendees to subscribe to the flexible services that CyberCloud has to offer.