By Onuminya Innocent The Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, has given the approval for the commencement of registration for the federal government social intervention programme (N-Power) for the unemployed youths across the state. Making the announcement in Birnin Kebbi Monday, the Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning, Dr. Abba Sani Kalgo, said
the registration would commence on Monday, July 6, 2020, at all designated centres, which include all the local government areas and Emirate headquarters. Kalgo explained that the applicants from the state capital, Birnin Kebbi, would be registered at the Emir of Gwandu’s Palace, Alhaji Muhammadu Iliyasu Bashar, and the ICT Centre of the Waziri Umaru Federal Polytechnic, Birnin Kebbi. He said: “Kebbi State Ministry of Budget and Planning is calling on youths interested in the federal government N-Power programme to
hurry up and come for the free registration and additional information on the programme at the centres provided throughout the state. ”The registration is to start on Monday, 6th July, 2020, throughout the centres provided. Interested youths are to come with their BVN document and valid identity card. “They are also requested to come along with the original copies of their certificates and other required documents for capturing and subsequent forwarding, via internet
to the N-power programme headquarters.” The commissioner urged all those coming for the registration to wear masks, maintain social and physical distancing at the registration centres. Kalgo called on the applicants, especially youths in the state to take advantage of this golden opportunity to get registered for the programme. He also thanked Governor Bagudu for his sustained invaluable support to the ministry to carry out the exercise free of charge for the applicants. “Because of his concern for the development and empowerment of youths in the state, the Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, directed that the exercise be carried out free of charge throughout the state,” he said.