WELTERWEIGHT TITLE AT UFC 251 Colby Covington has branded Jorge Masvidal ‘pathetic’ for wanting a rematch with Kamaru Usman after getting ‘destroyed’ by the welterweight champion at UFC251. ‘Chaos’, who used to be team-mates with Masvidal but is now a bitter rival, was scathing in his criticism of the challenger’s effort on Fight Island. “It’s pathetic that he’s out there asking for a rematch,” he told MMA Junkie. “He lost every round. Dude, you got destroyed. I won three rounds off “Marty Fakenewsman”. You’re not on my level, Jorge, and you know that. “Deep down inside, you could say whatever you want to the media and talk all that (expletive) before, guess what (expletive), I’m not at American Top Team no more, we could do this anytime.” Covington challenged Usman for the title before the champion faced Masvidal and suffered a TKO defeat and broken jaw in their fight last December. He took aim at both men for their performances on Fight Island at UFC 251, accusing Usman of being boring and Masvidal over-hyped. Covington continued: “I wanted to watch, but then I fell asleep. It was so boring, it was a hug-fest and they were playing footsie the whole time. That wasn’t a real fight. ‘”Marty Fakenewsman’s” stock went way down in that fight. He’s definitely the most boring fighter in the history of the UFC and we found out just what I said the whole time – “Street Judas” Masvidal is all hype. “He had his 15 seconds of fame, his 15 seconds of fame are up. He hit lightning in a bottle, but just we found out what everyone knew. He’s not a well-rounded fighter, he got exposed.” To the uninitiated, Covington’s nickname for Usman stems from the champion’s wrestling coach being unable to pronounce Kamaru and calling him Marty. Masvidal also sometimes goes by ‘Street Jesus’ given his early days scrapping in backyards and the long flowing hair. Masvidal took the Usman fight on just six days’ notice and believes he would get the victory with a full training camp to prepare. But it seems likely that Usman will defend his welterweight belt against either Gilbert Burns or Leon Edwards next. Masvidal may end up taking on Covington to put himself back in with a title shot in what could be a hugely anticipated grudge match.