By Ugo Aliogo A political advocacy organisation, the Vancouver Group, based in Akure, Ondo State, has launched a website www.eyitayojedegeforgovernor.com to support the candidacy of Eyitayo Jegede, SAN, one of the gubernatorial aspirants under the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State. A statement made available to THISDAY said the Vancouver Group launched the website in response to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), which indicated that electioneering campaigns would be mostly conducted online to contain the spread of coronavirus pandemic. The statement said the Eyitayo Jegede campaign does not want to make the state a hotbed of COVID 19, therefore the Vancouver Group has decided to support Eyitayo Jegede to make an online campaign one of his key strategies. The Vancouver Group Outreach Coordinator, Philip Adebayo, said: “The website is also launched to reach out to Eyitayo Jegede teeming supporters and voters in Ondo State to know about the candidate and support his gubernatorial ambition. “We are convinced that Eyitayo Jegede represents the best alternative to the failed government in Ondo state that fails to do people’s business and consistently fails to embark on programs that will benefit the state’s people. Lack of performance of this administration should not be surprising because the administration at inception said the previous administration had done all that required projects. To us, that means unpreparedness of the governor for governance but seeking power for power’s sake. Eyitayo Jegede is not seeking just power but wants to use it to transform the state from the first day he is sworn-in the executive governor of Ondo state. “The best feeling that the people of the state had for the present administration was when they voted for it. Of course, the state’s people wished the current administration succeeded because they want Ondo state to thrive. However, the high hopes which people had for the administration have turned to disappointment. “The improvement in infrastructure that the administration promised has remained elusive. Healthcare delivery in state’s hospitals is monetized and out of reach of the citizens. This is contrary to what the administration campaigned on. The governor’s utterances and actions which have been noticeable across the state have led to more division and marginalization. This tactic is a dangerous dimension that must be resisted and condemned.” He maintained that Jegede had demonstrated consistency and loyalty by building the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state even after he contested in 2016, adding that his dedication to the state and PDP has remained unwavering. Philip remarked that Jegede’s commitment to transforming the state from the current situation has been paramount in his mind, thus making him the preferred alternative, “that is why our group is throwing its support for Eyitayo Jegede during the PDP primaries and when he emerges as the PDP’s flag-bearer.” Continuing, he added: “Eyitayo Jegede has a private sector background, which gives him the experience and capacity to transform the state from reliance on federal allocations to building a self-sustaining state given its resources and human capital. Eyitayo Jegede will also make the state conducive for willing investors who create jobs for the state’s teeming population. “The Vancouver group will not be on the fence but will be heavily involved in the state’s governorship election. The people of Ondo State must use the upcoming governorship election to open their eyes and reject this current administration at the poll. It is time to undo the mistake they made in 2016 and end this failed administration.”