Deji Elumoye and Chuks Okocha in Abuja The Senate yesterday confirmed the nomination of 39 non-career and one career ambassadors-designate, including a former Editor with THISDAY, Mr. Oma Djebah (Delta). It has also called on President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure that the 2021 budget is sent to the National Assembly before the end of September. Buhari had requested the approval of the Senate for the confirmation of 42 nominees.
But only 40 of the nominees scaled the screening process as the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, Senator Adamu Bulkachuwa, while presenting the committee’s report, said there were irreconcilable issues with two nominees from Niger and Yobe states. The only career ambassador-designate on the list is from the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Besides Djebah, among others confirmed were a former Editor of THE GUARDIAN, Mr. Debo Adesina (Oyo) and Mr. Dare Awoniyi (Kogi), who is the son of the late Chief Sunday Awoniyi, a former Chairman of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF). Three states, (Kwara, Kano, Oyo) have three nominees each while three others, (Borno, Benue, Adamawa), got two slots each.
Twenty states had one slot each while four states had no nominee. The full list of the non-career ambassadors-designate confirmed are: Umar Suleiman (Adamawa); Kelvin Peter (Adamawa); Chief Elejah Onyeagba (Anambra); Prof. Monique Ekpong (Cross River); Ominyi N. Eze (Ebonyi); Yamah Mohammed Musa (Edo); Maj. Gen. CO Ugwu (Enugu); Dr. Hajara I. Salim (Gombe); Amb. Yahaya Lawal (Katsina); Ademola Seriki (Lagos); Chief Sarafa Tunji Ishola (Ogun); Adejare Bello (Osun); John Usanga (Akwa Ibom); Hamisu Umar Takalmawa (Kano); Philip Ikurusi (Bayelsa); Hon. Tarzcor Terhemen (Benue); Al-Bishir Ibrahim Al-Hussain (Borno); Obiezu Ijeoma Chinyerem (Imo); Ali M. Magashi (Jigawa); Prof. M. A. Makarfi (Kaduna). Others are: Henry John Omaku (Nasarawa); Sadiya Ahmad Nuhu (Kano); Adeshina Alege (Oyo); Shehu Abdullahi Yibaikwai (Plateau); Maureen Tamuno (Rivers), Faruk Yabo (Sokoto); Abubakar Moriki (Zamfara); Adamu M. Hassan (Taraba); Abubakar D. Ibrahim Siyi (Bauchi); Paul Oga Adikwu (Benue); Jazuli Imam Galadanci (Kano); Dare Sunday Awoniyi (Kogi); Ibrahim Kayode Laaro (Kwara), Abioye Bello (Kwara); Zara Maazu Umar (Kwara); Mrs. Nimi Akinkugbe (Ondo); Debo Adesina (Oyo) and Ms. Folakemi Akinyele (Oyo).
Mr. Suleiman Sani of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) is the only career ambassador-designate on the list. Senate Urges Buhari to Submit 2021 Budget By September
The President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, has called on Buhari to ensure that the 2021 budget is sent to the National Assembly by September. Lawan gave the directive yesterday after the Senate referred the 2021-2023 Medium Term Expenditure Framework s(MTEF) to the Senate committees of Finance and National Planning for further legislative duties within the next four weeks.
Lawan said the September deadline for the presentation of the 2021 budget was to ensure a speedy passage of the budget as was the case with that of 2020. “The executive should continue to work on the preparations for the 2021 budget, and by this we are also equally committed to ensuring that we receive the budget estimates at the end of September and that we are able to consider the budget and get it passed before the end of December to repeat what we did for budget 2020,” he stated.
He mandated the Senate Committees on Finance and National Planning to relate with all revenue generating agencies to smoothen the passage of the MTEF He said: “This Senate is giving the committee four weeks within which to work very closely with the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning and particularly engage with the revenue generating agencies where we are expecting them to meet their targets.
“We need to ensure that they have all the support that they require from the National Assembly, particularly the Senate to meet their targets.” Buhari had on Tuesday forwarded the 2021-2023 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper to the Senate for approval. The document was accompanied by a letter read during plenary by Lawan.
Buhari, in the letter, said: “It is with pleasure that I forward the 2021 – 2023 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper (MTEF/FSP) for the kind consideration and approval of the distinguished Senate. “Let me seize this opportunity to express my deep gratitude for the cooperation, support and commitment of the leadership and distinguished members of the Senate in our collective efforts to sustain the restoration of the January-December financial year.
“In line with our commitment, we have worked very hard to achieve and earlier submission of the MTEF/FSP. This is to allow the National Assembly enough time to perform its important constitutional duty of reviewing the framework.”