Nigerian Breweries Plc has announced the opening of entries for the sixth edition of the ‘Maltina Teacher of the Year.’ Speaking at the flag-off ceremony of the initiative held recently in Lagos, the Corporate Affairs Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc., Mrs. Sade Morgan said the event is one of the ways the company fulfills and demonstrates its corporate philosophy of ‘Winning with Nigeria’. According to her, this year’s edition of the initiative is particularly special and symbolic.
“The global coronavirus pandemic has impacted all aspects of our existence including education. Nevertheless, it has also showcased the resilient spirit of our teachers who have been unrelenting in finding new ways to continue to teach students virtually despite technological challenges and limitations. This demonstrates the important role teachers play in the development of our society and the education of our future leaders,” she said. Morgan further explained that the “Maltina teacher of the year is an initiative that is cherished and keenly supported by our management team who are deeply passionate about education. This is why we are committed and very happy to commence our annual search for the best secondary school teacher in Nigeria with the Call for Entry commencing on June 30 and closes on August 14, 2020. “The winning and other qualifying teachers would be revealed in by October in commemoration of the 2020 World Teacher’s Day. We celebrate Nigerian teachers who continue to break new grounds and immeasurably contribute to the future of our great nation, by helping to groom and nurture the next generation.” Speaking on the prizes, Morgan said, “As with previous years, the winner will receive a total cash prize of 6.5 million Naira as his/her reward, in addition to a trophy. One million naira as first prize winner, five hundred thousand Naira as state champion and one million Naira annually for the next 5years, he/she also receives a capacity development training while his/her school receives either a block of classroom or a computer laboratory.”