Chuks Okocha in Abuja The 36 state governors will meet today (Wednesday) to review the synergy between the federal and state governments on the management of COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) in a statement issued yesterday by its Secretariat’s Head of Media and Public Affairs, Mr. Abdulrazaque Bello-Barkindo, said that the 13th teleconference meeting would commence by 2pm. The statement added that National Coordinator of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, Dr. Sani Aliyu, would be joining the governors in the virtual meeting expected to last for five hours. It stated that the Head of NGF Subcommittee on the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, would brief the governors on the progress being made by the Task Force. It added that Okowa would brief the governors on whether or not the much required synergy between the federal and subnational governments was yielding any fruits “Other issues surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic which will be put on the table for the governors to debate include the federal government’s support to states.” It added that the NGF Chairman and Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, would also be giving the governors an update on the COVID-19 pandemic, States Fiscal Transparency, Accountability and Sustainability Program (SFTAS), the recently struck partnership between the Forum and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on agriculture. It stated that Fayemi would also brief the governors on his recent meeting with the Chief Justice of Nigeria, and another partnership between the Forum and the UNDP, which revolves mainly around Gender-Based Violence, among many others. It added that the meeting would also look into three sectors – health, the economy and agriculture. “It is expected that the governors will deliberate over the Basic Healthcare Provision Fund, Loans to states from the CBN, the Infrastructure refund to about five states and PAYE 2. “Ms. Yue Man Lee of the World Bank will also make a presentation on the deadlines and verification of the SFTAS program in the states. It added that the NGF’s Agricultural Advisor, Mr. Olatunde Akande, would also make a presentation on the Anchor Borrowers programme that he is midwifing, in which the NGF was partnering with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as a facilitator.