Peter Uzoho The University of Lagos has warned the school’s chapter of the Academic Staff Union of University (ASUU) against disrupting the activities of the university, particularly the meeting of the University’s Governing Council slated for tomorrow. The university’s Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Dr. Olawale Babalakin, reacting to the alleged threat by ASUU to disrupt the meeting of the governing council accused the union of fixing their congress the same day with the governing council meeting to disrupt the latter meeting. Babalakin in a statement yesterday by the Registrar and Secretary to Council, UNILAG, Mr. Oladejo Azeez, said the action of ASUU violated the freedom of movement of Nigerians within Nigeria as enshrined in the constitution. The statement said: “I have the instruction of the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council to inform members of the university community and the general public as follows:
“It is important to note that the council had earlier issued a notice for the council meeting commencing on the same 15th of July 2020. “This council meeting, apart from being statutory was also requisitioned by the vice-chancellor of the university.
“The Vice-Chancellor, Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, recently requisitioned the meeting to the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of the Governing Council, Dr. Wale Babalakin, on May 11, 2020, and June 26, 2020 respectively.” According to the statement, the time and topic by ASUU for their congress clearly indicated its plan to disrupt the council meeting, especially since it has issued several threats to prevent the pro-chancellor from coming to the university. “This action is violently against the provision of Section 41, subsection 1 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) (Fourth Alteration), which guarantees freedom of movement of Nigerians within Nigeria
“ASUU as a trade union under the laws of Nigeria is also expected to know that Section 4 of the Trade Union Act states that ‘No person shall subject any other person to any form of constraint or restriction in the course of persuasion,’” it stated. It said the UNILAG ASUU has shown that it is a group that does not adhere to the constitution of Nigeria or the trade union law, which it is a part of. “As a responsible council, we will not engage ASUU, University of Lagos branch, on issues that are beyond its duties, powers and responsibilities under the laws of Nigeria.
“We, therefore, advise all law-abiding Nigerians to discountenance the action of the leadership of ASUU, University of Lagos branch and go about their legitimate duties as they will be protected under the laws of the federation,” it added.