High Life with KAYODE ALFRED Billionaire Dr. Bolu Akin-Olugbade wears his modesty on his sleeves and he has no apologies about it. Even though he is a certified billionaire, he doesn’t like to be called one. As he said in a dated interview, having only $250 million in cash and a few more millions in other currencies should not qualify one for such appellation. Typical of him, but his lifestyle and homes across the world are at variance with such modesty! Dr. Akin-Olugbade, a successful lawyer with a doctorate in Company Law from Cambridge University, and an unabashed lover of high-end Rolls Royce cars, is globally reputed as one of the largest collectors of Rolls Royce. He told an interviewer some years back: “I bought my first Rolls Royce in 1984 and now, I am on my ninth Rolls Royce. I believe in dressing well and I travel a lot.”
His 10th, the 2019 Rolls Royce SUV called the Cullinan was among the first to roll out of the factory in December 2018. His Cullinan was the first to be made for Africa. His taste in high-end cars is complemented by a higher one, perhaps, for owning houses in some of the most exclusive neighbourhoods in the world. In Dubai, he owns a penthouse apartment in Lake View Tower, a 40-storey residential skyscraper located in the Jumeirah Lake Towers. The penthouse comes with amazing views of the central lake, neighbouring Jumeirah Islands, gardens, waterfalls, and promenades. The tower also provides a breathtaking view of the majestic skyline across the Dubai Marina. Whenever he is in the United States of America, Dr. Akin-Olugbade prefers to be ensconced in his plush 5-bedroom house in Westwood, Beverly Hills. A commercial and residential neighbourhood in the northern central portion of the Westside region of Los Angeles, California, Westwood is often called ‘The Creative City’ because of its bustling and brisk atmosphere. It is believed that he has been holed up in the house since the violent protests spreading through America over the killing of an African-American man, George Floyd, by the police. But a source said he will leave Los Angeles for London when Virgin Atlantic resumes operations on July 1. In London, he would still be spoilt for choice as he has homes in the very exclusive and affluent St John’s Wood and another 5-bedroom country home in Hampstead. Whichever one he decides on, Dr. Akin-Olugbade is certain to enjoy the comfort and convenience of his wealth. Similarly, no expense was spared in building and furnishing his breathtaking Aare Ona Kakanfo Palace in Abeokuta. Described by awe-struck visitors as Africa’s answer to the Buckingham Palace, the home has eleven gigantic bedrooms, each en suite, a glittering chandelier that effortlessly underscores the nobility and affluence of the owner, and four huge sitting rooms tastefully furnished to Prince Bolu’s high standards. There is an expansive dining room that can fit a whole community and an amphitheatre with a roof that doubles as a helicopter pad. Like the main house, the boys’ quarter is also well-furnished.