Nosa Alekhuogie Netcom Africa, a Managed IT Service Provider has stressed the need for businesses to have a robust virtual security architecture in today’s changing business environment. Netcom Africa, which is also an outsourcing firm has brought to the fore a bouquet of information technology ( IT ) security solutions for businesses in Nigeria. With the high rising incidents of breaches in various organizations today, investing in IT security becomes more imperative in order to secure critical assets and information. Citing recent reports on IT security, the company said over N127 billion losses annually were recorded as a result of security breaches in the country, with $2.1 trillion worldwide. It was reported that over 60 per cent of small and medium sized busineses that suffer a cyber security breach will go out of business within six months of the breach due to reputation damage, customer and financial loss, and legal actions. Netcom Africa has introduced top-notch security solutions that would address the issue of breaches. Over the years, Netcom has solidified its footprint in Nigeria’s tech market with the deployment of robust cyber security services targeting Nigerian corporate where high-end tech services are steadily on the rise. Analysing security risks in businesses, Vice President, Corporate Development and Marketing, Netcom Africa, Harrington Charles, said: “Security is best when it’s silent, our solutions feature both cloud and on-premise SSO, multi-factor authentication, user provisioning with self-service and access governance, password synchronization, self-service password reset and even AD & NTFS auditing tools.” Organisations are to enjoy the latest deployments in the cyber security system. According to Netcom Africa, the company’s security information and event management (SIEM) service collects and analyses security information in real time from across organisations. A combination of powerful proprietary technologies and human intelligence helps to prevent attacks on your network, and protect your commercially sensitive information. “One of the best preventative measures that any organisation can undertake is education of its people. Providing cybersecurity training for your employees is by far the best value for cost and too many users don’t know the basic practices such as updating software, recognising a phishing email, and use of strong passwords. “Netcom Africa have designed these types of trainings as well as partnered with global reputable brands to bring Nigerians the best cyber security solutions available in any part of the world,” Charles said. He added, “We have partnered with Shelt, the European Managed Security Service Provider (MSSP), to offer the first cloud-based cybersecurity platform in Nigeria, FirstWave Cloud Content Security Platform (CCSP). The Email Security, Web Security, and Firewall Security suite is based on the most robust enterprise solutions of Cisco, Palo Alto and Fortinet and does away with the need to have an on premise appliance. “The suite is available on per user model and can be easily scaled for any size business and gives small and medium sized companies access to high end solutions that would normally be suited for Fortune 500 companies with over 1000. “In addition, we also have partnerships with Microsoft, Kaspersky, Tata Communications, and Sophos, the global leaders in Cybersecurity including Endpoint protection, Firewall, DDoS Detection and Mitigation, UTM (Unified Threat Management), and Penetration testing, to complete our suite of security solutions allowing us to give your company the right balance between value and cost to meet your objectives,” Charles added.