By Peter Uzoho Businesses in Edo State are set for positive growth trajectory as the federal government, through the Nigeria Electricity Services Agency (NEMSA), is set to inaugurate the 33KV Transmission line of the Governor Godwin Obaseki-backed CCETC-Ossiomo 55MW Independent Power Plant (IPP) today. In a statement, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Energy and Electricity, Pharmacist Joy Ebhodaghe, entitled: ‘NEMSA Testing and Certification of the CCETC-Ossiomo Independent Power Plant and the 33KV Transmission Line’, the energy ministry stated: “We wish to bring to the attention of the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC), the Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and the general public that as part of the testing and certification of the CCETC-Ossiomo IPP by the Nigeria Electricity Services Agency (NEMSA), the 33KV Transmission line will be energised from 10.00am-12noon on Monday July 20, 2020. “The announcement serves as notice to all persons and agencies that have activities along the said Sapele Road, Benin City corridor within the stipulated period.” The milestone is the product of Governor Godwin Obaseki’s resolve to fix the energy crisis in the state through the provision of an alternative source of electricity supply to support the state’s industrialisation drive and create a competitive energy market. The state government recently announced that the 55MW CCTEC-Ossiomo Power Plant was set for a test run to open up the state’s power sector for the benefit of residential and industrial consumers. The CCETC-Ossiomo benefits from a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) entered with the Edo state government, which paves way for the supply of stable electricity to government buildings and public utilities, such as hospitals, offices, street lights, the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium and other such public facilities. Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, said the coming on stream of the power plant would cement the state’s status as a hub for power generation and distribution in the country, as power consumers would now have a flexible regime that guarantees that they buy power from willing sellers. According to him, “The 55MW CCETC-Ossiomo power project is unique and critical. Asides the fact that it is a fulfillment of Governor Godwin Obaseki’s promise to bring in investors into the power sector and improve the sector for optimal performance, the success of the project also provides the state government a good partner in industrialising the state. The power station would power a number of legacy projects in the state, such as the Benin Enterprise and Industrial Park as well as the Utesi Industrial Cluster. “The project showcases the commitment of the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led government to the welfare of Edo people. We will continue to put the people first in the various projects we embark on and this projector is one in a long streak of legacy projects.” Noting that the state government is proud with the spate of work on the project, he added: “For this project, the company laid 104 high tension poles from Ologbo to the Benin By-pass, which indicates the level of investment made in ensuring a solid infrastructure is put in place for the success of the project. With the test run, some government offices and streetlights on the Sapele Road corridor would be powered from the plant. We are sure this is a sign of more good things to come.”