Ekweremadu urges FG to tackle killings By Our Correspondents National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus hasprayed for God’s mercy on Nigeria as he urged Muslims to use the solemn period of Sallah to do same for the beloved country. But former Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, felicitated with the Muslim Ummah urged the federal government to take immediate steps to end the killings in the country Prince Secondus said that the precarious situation in the country at this time makes it imperative that all should go to God in supplications to grant us his mercy and grace. The National Chairman said in a message to mark the Eid-el-Kabir festivities by Muslims that the suffering of Nigerians in the last five years of All Progressives Congress (APC) administration that is further being aggravated by the global COVID-19 pandemic should be enough mitigation to plead to God for mercy. Prince Secondus said that Nigeria leaders have failed woefully both to God their creator and to the people and should use this period to seek his face. The National Chairman said in a message from his media office that Nigerians should also use the period to offer special prayers for the unity and stability of the nation as well as recommit their individual and collective security and economic welfare into the hands of God. On his part, Ekweremadu while felicitating with the Muslim Ummah on the occasion of this year’s Eid-el-Kabir celebrations, urged the federal government to take immediate steps to end the killings in the country Ekweremadu warned that Nigeria was fast becoming a killing field. In his Sallah message, he said: “I felicitate with our Muslim brothers and sisters on this occasion of Eid-el-Kabir. The occasion calls for rededication to the fine principles of sacrifice, justice, and equity as exemplified by the Prophet and without which no nation can ever make any progress. “It is also not lost on us that this is a very dire time for Nigeria, as our Muslim brethren and the nation celebrate Sallah in a state of grave apprehension, with many of them displaced by the worsening insecurity. This Sallah, therefore, serves as an opportunity to offer special prayers for the peace, unity, prosperity, and security of our country.” Diri Hails Muslims Governor of Bayelsa State, Senator Douye Diri, has urged Muslim faithful in Nigeria to use the occasion of the Eid-el-Kabir festival to reflect on the lessons of sacrifice, charity and love. In a statement issued yesterday by Daniel Alabrah, his Acting Chief Press Secretary, the governor, said the challenges facing Nigeria in this period of the global pandemic required introspection by the Muslim Ummah on the teachings of their Prophet. “So, I urge our Muslim faithful to continue to live in peace and love while praying for the prosperity of Bayelsa and our country.” Makinde Preaches Love, Sacrifice Governor of Oyo State, Mr. Seyi Makinde, has felicitated with the Muslim Ummah in the state and across the world on the occasion of the Eid-el-Kabir celebration, admonishing them to continue to keep adhering to the teachings of love, sacrifice and perseverance, which the festival exemplifies. Governor Makinde, in a Sallah message made public and signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, noted that the “Festival of Sacrifice” known as Eid-el-Kabir, presents an opportunity for Muslims to reflect on the faith with which Prophet Ibrahim (Abraham) willingly agreed to sacrifice his son, in obedience to the command of the Almighty Allah. The governor maintained the all-important Eid Adha was worth celebrating despite the restrictions brought upon the world by the COVID-19 pandemic, encouraging the Muslim Ummah to use the opportunity to pray for the peace of the world and to show love and selflessness in line with the examples shown by Prophet Ibrahim. The governor equally urged all Muslims in the state and especially the clerics and leaders to ensure strict compliance with the COVID-19 protocols, noting that the times demand that they celebrate with moderation and in adherence to preventive guidelines on COVID-19. Ize-Iyamu Urges Prayers for Peaceful Election The candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the September 19 governorship election in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has congratulated Muslims in the state, and the country in general, on the celebration of Eid-el-Kabir, urging sacrifice to God, participation in the affairs of state, and prayers for a peaceful election. In a message signed by Mr. John Mayaki, the Chairman of the Edo APC Media Campaign Council, Ize-Iyamu said that the celebration should be marked by a re-dedication to faith and complete submission to the will of God. He said: “I congratulate our Muslim faithful in Edo State and all over the world as they celebrate the Eid-ul-Adha.” According to him, the celebration is ultimately, a through reflection and re-dedication which enables the Muslim faithful increase their faith and remain close to Allah.” Ize-Iyamu said: “It is my wish that we all use this opportunity to render ourselves conscious of the importance of our faith and the significance of our submission to the almighty creator.” Fayemi Greets Muslims Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has felicitated with Muslims in the state and in the country at large as they join other faithful around the world to celebrate this year’s Eid-el-Kabir. In his goodwill message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Yinka Oyebode, the governor urged the Muslim Ummah and Nigerians generally to imbibe the lessons of dedication and obedience to higher authority as demonstrated in Prophet Ibrahim’s preparedness to sacrifice his son in obedience to the instructions of Allah. Fayemi who stressed the need for Nigerians to continue to make sacrifices that are necessary for nation building, urged the Muslim faithful to endure the inconveniences occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic which has considerably reduced the pomp associated with the celebration of the Eid Kabir festival globally. The governor however charged them to continue to pray and be optimistic that a lasting solution would be found for the pandemic through divine intervention. Okowa Seeks Prayers for the Nation Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, has felicitated with Nigerian Muslims as they celebrate Eid-el-Kabir. He urged the Islamic faithful to emulate the Holy Prophet Mohammed by imbibing the ideals of sacrifice exemplified by the prophet. In a Sallah message by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, on Wednesday in Asaba, the Governor said that Eid-el-Kabir was a season of love, peace, togetherness and sacrifice. He urged Nigerians to embrace peaceful co-existence and pray to God to heal the land from the COVID-19 pandemic ravaging nations of the world, adding that God would use the celebration to better the lots of Nigerians who struggled daily to eke out a living amid numerous challenges confronting the nation. He assured of a peaceful celebration in the state as the government was in touch with security agencies to ensure that all citizens celebrated the Sallah in peace and harmony. Ugwuanyi Calls for Intense Prayers to Overcome Challenges Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has enjoined Muslims and indeed all Nigerians, to use the occasion of this year’s Eid-el-Kibir, to rejuvenate their faith in God and pray fervently for the peace, unity, security and progress of the nation, especially as the country battles the novel Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) pandemic. In his Sallah message, Ugwuanyi felicitated with President Muhammadu Buhari and other Muslim faithful, and wished them the blessings and guidance of Allah. The governor urged Nigerians to embrace the virtues of love, charity and sacrifice as exemplified by the Holy Prophet Mohammed. While wishing all Nigerians a peaceful and healthy celebration, Ugwuanyi advised them to stay safe and adhere strictly to all precautionary measures for the containment of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Sanwo-Olu Calls for Moderate Celebrations Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has rejoiced with Muslims across the country on the occasion of Eid-el-Kabir festival, urging them to celebrate moderately in the wake of the rise in cases of the COVID-19 pandemic. The governor also advised Nigerians, especially Muslims to imbibe the lessons of sacrifice made by Prophet Ibrahim and work for the unity and progress of the nation. Sanwo-Olu, in his Eid-el-Kabir message released yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, congratulated Muslims in Lagos and advised them to continue on the path of spirituality and peaceful co-existence. He said Eid al-Adha became a symbolic event in the history of mankind, given the bountiful rewards that followed the patience and perseverance of Prophet Ibrahim, who held on tenaciously to his faith in God despite being afflicted. Sanwo-Olu therefore urged Lagosians to draw lessons from the prophet’s examples by eschewing tendencies that could severe the unity and stability in the country. Nasarawa Gov Solicits Prayers for Leaders As Muslims celebrate this years Eid-el-Kabir, Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State has called on the Muslim faithful in the state to pray for leaders at all levels to govern with the fear of God and the virtue of justice, humility and service for the good of humanity. The governor made the call in his Eid-el-Kabir message to Muslim faithful in the state, noting that the season also calls for greater vigilance to ensure a safe neighbourhood for harmonious co-existence. He added: “On the occasion of this Sallah celebration, I beseech you all to re-affirm your obedience to Allah’s injunctions as contained in the noble Qur’an and follow the teachings of Prophet Muhammad.” He also called on people of Nasarawa State to continue to accommodate each other’s beliefs and values in order to sustain peace, harmony, socio-cultural and economic prosperity. Sule therefore assured residents of the state from other regions of the country that Nasarawa State was a cosmopolitan society that accommodates everybody irrespective of tribe, region, religion or any other creed, therefore, they should remain law abiding as they go about in pursuit of their lawful means of livelihood. Kogi Gov Preaches Peace, Unity Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, has felicitated with the Muslim ummah on the occasion of this year’s Eid-el-Kabir celebrations, urging citizens to imbibe virtues of peace, love and unity. In a Sallah message signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mohammed Onogwu, copy of which was made available to the newsmen in Lokoja yesterday, he urged Muslims to imbibe the lesson of the period Bello admonished the people to continue to promote peaceful co-existence, religious tolerance and national unity, among other virtues that will ensure accelerated progress and socio-economic development of the state and nation at large. He said Eid-el-Kabir as an occasion for the Muslim Ummah to remember the sacrifices Prophet Ibrahim made in obedience to the will of God should, thus, inculcate in all Muslims and even non-Muslim a sense of sacrifice – a sense of sacrifice that puts others and our nation first. The governor condemned the Wednesday’s attack in Agbudu community of the state, assuring that the government would do everything possible to bring the perpetrators to book. Gombe Gov Felicitates with Muslim Ummah Gombe State Governor, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, has felicitated with the Muslim Ummah on the occasion of this year’s Eid-el-Kabir celebration. In a goodwill message issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Ismaila Uba Misilli, Governor Yahaya admonished the Muslim faithful to remain steadfast in prayers for peace, prosperity and development of the state, as well as for an end to the COVID-19 pandemic. While describing the Eid-el-Kabir festivity as a period of sacrifice, sharing and caring, the governor enjoined the faithful to continue to imbibe the spirit of sacrifice, love, unity of purpose and obedience as exemplified by Prophet Ibrahim (AS) and upheld by Prophet Muhammad (SAW). Yahaya who noted that “although this year’s celebration is coming at a period the world is still grappling with the novel coronavirus pandemic and its devastating impact on lives and means of livelihood of the people, such should not distract us from learning the good lessons of the festival which teaches compassion, selfishness, love and obedience to the commands of Almighty Allah.” Imbibe Lessons of Sallah, Akeredolu Enjoins Muslims As Muslims in Ondo State join their counterparts all over the world, the state Governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, yesterday greets muslims as they celebrate Eid-el-Kabir which is regarded as the holiest festival in their calendar. Akeredolu in a statement signed by his Senior Special Assistant of Media and Publicity, Mr. Ojo Oyewamide, charged the Muslim faithful to see the essence of the festival beyond merrymaking, but to imbibe its lessons and apply them in their daily living. The governor said one of the lessons of Eid-el-Kabir is the wisdom in obeying the commands of Allah as shown by the willingness of Prophet Ibrahim to sacrifice his only son on Mount Moriah in obedience to Allah’s command. According to Governor Akeredolu, the reward of Prophet Ibrahim’s obedience was mercy and grace. He said: “Apart from teaching faith, trust and total submission to the will of Allah, Eid-el-Kabir is also about peace, the habit of sharing with the needy and showing love towards humanity.”