Under 40 CEOs, a business platform for young business leaders and aspiring entrepreneurs, is celebrating its fifth anniversary. It explained that since its launch in 2015, the platform has fostered an active community of young people who are leading the transformation of African economies. It is also nurturing the next generation of trailblazers and change drivers. Over 100 episodes of media content—featuring inspiring stories of young business leaders from East, West, and South Africa—have been recorded. And several curated events have been organised. These include the Under 40 CEOs Forum, Under 40 CEOs Live, Under 40 CEOs Networking Events, and an International Women’s Day event in Nigeria, Ghana, Rwanda, and South Africa. Speaking on the anniversary, the Executive Director Under 40 CEOs Africa, Familusi Akin Babajide, said: “Five years is a great milestone to recommit to our vision and mission. In these times, especially, young African business leaders have had to show resilience. At the Under 40 CEOs, we will continue the work of supporting these businesses to ensure that they not only survive but thrive.” “Ahead of the milestone celebration in October, the governing body of the Under 40 CEOs is opening up its platforms to several young entrepreneurs and aspiring executives, who possess the entrepreneurial qualities and drive, to spotlight and enable their businesses. It will also reward current members and new ones with premium offerings, as well as funding,” a statement quoted the organisation to have said. According to Familusi: “555 new annual membership subscriptions—including 5 Platinum memberships, 50 Bronze memberships, and 500 Student memberships—will be offered. All members, old and new, will be given free access to the course ‘Starting a business in Africa.’ The 5-module course is being designed and taught by subject matter experts within our community.” “Additionally, 50,500 copies of the book ‘Under 40 CEOs: How We Made It In Africa – Volume 1’ will be distributed for free. 5 workstations will be allotted to 5 winning businesses based in Lagos, Nigeria for 12 months. And seed funding to the tune of $1,300 (R22,000/N500,000/GHC7,500/RWFR1.23m) will be given to five winning businesses.”