A former governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State, Mr. Timi Alaibe has congratulated the Governor of the state, Senator Douye Diri on his emergence as the governor of the state and his victory at the Supreme Court. In a statement issued yesterday by his Personal Assistant, Ogio Enize, the former Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) said his challenge of the governor’s victory at the PDP primary was principally the process leading to the nomination and sponsorship of the candidate of the party. According to him, the process was orchestrated deliberately to meet a pre-determined end in favour of a particular person (Diri) contrary to the express provisions of the PDP constitution. He said his challenge was based on obvious lack of a level-playing ground and the brazen violation of a subsisting court order directing the mode of conduct of the primaries. Alaibe noted that in spite of the outcome of the case, he felt satisfied by his action because “when criminality is ignored or allowed to continue unchallenged, those responsible for such actions and even the uninformed observers could accept it as a way of life. It also has the capacity to encourage further lawlessness. “To our supporters, we appeal for calm. The Supreme Court has spoken, and as law- abiding citizens, we must at this point move on and draw the curtain on this particular issue. We have followed the due process of the law; and can go no further. “Therefore, in the true spirit of political brotherhood and friendship, irrespective of the uncharitable processes and the outcome of our legal action, Chief Ndutimi Alaibe hereby congratulates and extends his unreserved hand of fellowship to Senator Douye Diri on
his emergence as the Governor of Bayelsa. Congratulations”. He recalled that on Tuesday, the Supreme Court considered the appeal he filed against the PDP and four others challenging what he described as the fouled processes that led to his defeat in the last governorship primary of the PDP in Bayelsa State. According to him, in the course of considering the appeal, the apex court observed that the dispute agitating in the appeal was within the exclusive preserve of the political party; hence it could not be challenged by members of such a political party before any court of law. “Thus, the court affirmed the supremacy of the political party to the effect that irrespective of any obvious or perceived irregularity in the processes leading to the nomination and sponsorship of candidates, the party’s decision remains final and that no court of law has the competence to adjudicate on such an issue. “Based on observations and hints by the Supreme Court on this threshold issue, the lead Counsel to Alaibe, Chief I.A Adedipe (SAN), in deference to the court, withdrew the appeal and same was accordingly dismissed. “The merits of the appeal and the fundamental issues regarding the eligibility of the delegates that infested the Primary Election process was not determined and thus remained unresolved. “Rather, the unquestionable though unsatisfying position of the apex court is that in accordance with existing laws and precedence, if complaints were outside the scope contemplated under Section 87(9) of the Electoral Act that provides for right of action in pre-election matters. “While our supporters may feel justifiably disappointed by the outcome of the case based on the supremacy of the Court’s pronouncement, we have accepted it in good faith, however painful. We feel justified that from the trial court to the apex court, the repulsive processes that led to the Primary were never endorsed by any of the courts,” he explained.