Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja In its first major official statement since the arrest, detention and suspension of its acting Chairman, Mr. Ibrahim Magu, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), yesterday declared that it is still committed to President Muhammadu Buhari’s anti-corruption drive. It said in spite of recent developments at the agency, operations at the headquarters and its zonal offices nationwide were running smoothly and seamlessly. The presidency had barred visitors from the headquarters and the zonal offices across the country since last week while some security agents were deployed to keep a tab on activities of the establishment.
Magu was picked up at the Abuja Zonal Office of the commission by security agents on his way to a meeting and whisked away. He later appeared before Justice Ayo Salami-led presidential panel probing allegations of financial malfeasance and was subsequently detained for nine days at the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID), Area 10, Abuja.
The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami, had accused Magu, in a 21-point memo, of insubordination and engaging in financial infractions. But a statement issued yesterday by the commission said it was committed to the pursuit of the president’s anti-corruption agenda. The statement titled: “EFCC Is on Course,” urged Nigerians to shun corrupt practices.”
“The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) wishes to inform the general public that normal activities and operations are running smoothly and seamlessly in all its zonal offices across the country and its corporate headquarters in Abuja. “Admittedly, latest developments in the commission and the subsisting COVID-19 protocols have necessitated a scaling down of activities,” it said, adding: “Visitors on invitation by the commission are, in no way, affected by these.” The statement signed by its spokesman, Mr. Dele Oyewale, said: “The EFCC is deeply committed to the anti-corruption agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari and every Nigerian is enjoined to continue to shun and expose corrupt practices anywhere, anytime.
“The EFCC is on course and its values remain sound and robust.”