What would have been an elaborate, no-expense-spared 60th birthday bash to celebrate a man of great impact, turned out to be a low-key occasion due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Yet, the Chairman Nepal Oil and Gas, Elder Eme Ekeoma, shone with optimism and great humour inviting friends, family, and associates to an incredibly huge three-hour videoconference on a night of celebration and glowing panegyrics. Adedayo Adejobi reports Chairman Nepal Oil and Gas, Elder Ekeoma Eme Ekeoma, a man of great humility, influence, and service to God and humanity, on Thursday evening, June 25, in giving the much-desired spiritual seal to his birthday, took time to thank God for keeping his family and most important sparing his life to celebrate a diamond jubilee, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic that has claimed thousands of lives. A rather brisk church service in his tastefully-furnished and palatial living room, creatively revamped with breathtaking decorations, saw the celebrator, his wife, Barrister Ngozi Ekeoma, children, and grandchildren sing songs of thanksgiving. As expected, the event was attended by heavyweights from different sectors within Nigeria and beyond. This is to complement the high-standing of the businessman and philanthropist, and indeed his generous disposition towards people. Again, Elder Ekeoma’s fashion sense and Barrister Ngozi Ekeoma’s pristine beauty shone brightly in the looks and attire.
Present at the three-hour night of celebration were Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, Arunma Oteh, oil and gas businessman and philanthropist, Cosmas Maduka, ace comedian, Okey Bakassi and former President/CEO Transcorp, Emmanuel Nnorom, amongst others. Kalu said of the celebrant, “Elder Ekeoma is not just my kinsman. He is a very dear and rare friend. You are a man of principle. You stand for principles.” Also, eulogizing the Ekeoma, Cosmas Maduka, stated, “You are a man of principles. You stand for principles. Clearly, you’ve touched many lives. Elder Ekeoma is a gentleman personified, unassuming, and spiritual. You’ve been an exemplary leader in every respect. We thank God that you shine as a light and beacon of hope. We are inspired and blessed by you. You are one of the few people who attract my respect. Happy 60th birthday, Elder Ekeoma.” Giving glowing tributes to the celebrant, a representative of the Lagos Presbyterian Church Nigeria said, “You have allowed God to use you to touch the lives of many people. Your labour of love is well-appreciated. We celebrate you and wish you well.” Also pouring encomiums on Ekeoma was Chris Uche (SAN), who said, “I congratulate you on this auspicious occasion of your 60th birthday. Listening to testimonies about you goes to confirm you are a good man. Your life is a huge testimony and a signpost to God. Your humility in the midst of abundance is worthy of note. Congratulations, we are happy for you.” Adding colour and humour to the celebration, was Okey Bakassi, who said about Ekeoma: “If not for the fact that we have found ourselves in rather strange and confusing times, celebrating your 60th birthday would have been in grand style. Elder, happy birthday. I consider you a mentor on the premise that you are very successful, religious, and spiritual. You also have a good sense of style. You are calm and you don’t make a noise. I have met a lot of successful men. But you are different and I wish I can model my life after yours.” Ezinne, one of the celebrant’s children, said of Ekeoma, “My dad is a religious and spiritual man. He loves his family and is very hard-working. As a mother with three children, I have come to see and accept how impactful your teachings and training have reflected in my life. Thank you, dad for the spiritual foundation you’ve laid. I’m so grateful for the support you’ve given us and mom. I love you, dad.” Other friends, associates, as well as captains of industry and titans from the corporate and business world, joined hands with the Ekeomas to intercede for longevity and more successful life ahead. The very colourful birthday bash that connected many well-wishers via Zoom videoconferencing featured exciting songs, ministration, Bible reading and a sermon by the officiating minister, Elder Joshua Okorie. The couple of the moment, Elder and Barrister Ekeoma, whom all the dignitaries logged on to the internet to watch, took to the dance floor of their living room in what seemed like a well-choreographed dance routine that kept the entire audience spellbound and thrilled. In his closing remarks, Elder Ekeoma thanked all the guests saying, “I thank you all who have come out to rejoice with me. In these times, God is teaching us that He’s the Supreme Being. It is a clarion call for us to draw closer to God in prayer. Thank you all for celebrating me. God bless you all.” The cutting of the birthday cake was conducted by an associate pastor at the Believers Fellowship.