Mary Nnah Following the federal government’s laid down guidelines towards reopening of schools across the country, the management the Redeemer’s College of Technology and Management (RECTEM) has announced that it has put everything in place for the reopening of the tertiary institution as it awaits the reopening date for schools by the ministry of education. The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Pastor Enoch Adeboye, who recently inaugurated the Integrated Hand Dispensing Machine fabricated by RECTEM, said it was part of the prerequisites put in place by institution to curb the spread of COVID-19 as it prepares to reopen. The cleric also encouraged institutions of learning to cooperate with the government and make adequate provision for preventive measures against COVID-19, this he said would create safe and conducive environment for students.
The Rector, RECTEM, Dr. Stella Mofunnaya explained that the Integrated Hand Dispensing Machine, which is leg paddled, was fabricated as measure to check the spread of COVID-19, adding that the machine has other specific features that would prevent the spread of the virus, which include the fact that it is designed to dispense soap, water and hand sanitizer on its own; has a water storage tank and tissue paper holding devices. Mofunanya added that the machine would be deployed to all entrances to students’ hall of residence, lecture halls, laboratories and workshops among others, to ensure adequate preparation for resumption.
She revealed further that the school has also produced nose masks, face shields and alcohol- based hand sanitisers, which would be distributed to the students and staff. Also in preparation for the school’s reopening, Mofunanya said the college will be fumigating the halls of residence, classrooms, laboratories and offices before reopening, while also revealing that the school, which had embarked on e-learning following the closure of schools occasioned by the spread of the pandemic, is currently admitting students for the 2020/2021 academic session and calling on all applicants to apply to its various programmes at the National Diploma level. The Director of Entrepreneur Centre, RECTEM, Dr. Onjewu Sulaman said: “For us as a school of technology, we have to live up to standard and that is why we went ahead to fabricate a hand sanitizer machine unlike other places where just water and soap are used.”
Sulaman added that the school, which has manufactured hand sanitizers for students and public use, has also fabricated fumigators, which it intends to increase for commercialisation.