By Kuni Tyessi The Executive Secretary of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) has revealed that contrary to the Funds arrangement to serve only public institutions, private research institutions will also benefit from the N7.5billion 2020 National Research Fund (NRF) Grant. A statement released by the education agency and signed by its Director, Public Affairs, Mrs. Ngoba Priye Briggs, said the Ministry of Science and Technology had begun collaboration with the Fund towards ensuring that the country’s economy was driven by research and development. At the inauguration of a 10-man committee of the Ministry and the Fund, the Executive Secretary said the implementation committee serves as paradigm shift between the Ministry and TETFund, and reiterated the commitment of the fund to collaborating with relevant agencies towards making research a veritable instrument in national development. Bogoro recalled the efforts of the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, toward the collaboration and expressed appreciation for his commitment and support. Also speaking, Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Dr. Mohammed Bello Umar, lamented that Nigeria used to be ahead of several countries such as India and South Korea in terms of technology, but that most of them have overtaken the country. He therefore, expressed confidence that the collaboration would foster the relationship between TETFund and research institutes to help accelerate the country’s technological and economic development. “The National Research Fund (NRF) Grant which has been increased to N7.5 billion in 2020 from the N5 billion approved in 2019, TETFund has made amendments to include non-state entities and also invite private research institutes and educational institutions for research purposes. “The 10-man committee which comprises officials from both the Ministry and TETFund was inaugurated as a follow-up to a Memorandum of Understanding signed between both parties in January 2020 to boost Research and Development (R&D) for the technological and overall economic development of the country.” Dr. Umar stated that the partnership between the Ministry and TETFund is geared towards driving the Nigerian economy through Science and Technology with adequate funding because no country in the world could thrive without Science and Technology. The Executive Secretary also thanked the Permanent Secretary for his cooperation and reiterated the commitment of TETFund in collaborating with relevant agencies towards making research a veritable instrument in national development.