Fadekemi Ajakaiye The Board of Directors of CRC Credit Bureau Limited are pleased to announce the appointment of Mr. Olusegun Alebiosu as the new Chairman and Mrs. Olajumoke Odulaja as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of the organization. CRC Credit Bureau will undoubtedly benefit from their combined over 50-year experience in senior executive positions in the banking and financial services industry. Mr. Alebiosu replaces Dr. Greg Jobome who has served out his two-term tenure. He joined the Board of CRC in 2016, representing First Bank. Mr Alebiousu is the Chief Risk Officer, First Bank of Nigeria. Prior to joining First Bank in September 2016, he served as Chief Risk Officer at Coronation Merchant Bank Limited, Chief Credit Risk Officer at African Development Bank Group and Group Head, Credit Policy & Deputy Chief Credit Risk Officer at United Bank for Africa Plc. Olusegun holds a bachelor’s degree in Industrial Relations and Personnel Management and a master’s degree in International Law and Diplomacy from the University of Lagos. He also holds a master’s degree in Development Studies from the London School of Economics and Political Science. He is a member of various professional bodies, namely, Associate of Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM), Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) and Member, Nigeria Institute of International Affairs. He is also an alumnus of Harvard Kennedy School of Government. Mrs. Olajumoke Odulaja is currently the Chief Risk Officer of Union Bank Plc and brings to her role as Vice-Chairman, over 20 years in the banking industry with various managerial roles in Credit Risk Management. Prior to joining Union Bank, she worked at Stanbic IBTC and Standard Chartered banks, with 12 years spent in managerial positions during her career. She joined the Board of CRC in 2018, representing Union Bank Plc and Keystone Bank. She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN). She obtained a bachelor’s degree in Economics from the University of Ilorin and Master’s in Business Administration (MBA) from Manchester Business School, United Kingdom. CRC Credit Bureau is the largest Credit Bureau in Nigeria and provides a nationwide repository on credit profiles of corporate entities as well as consumers, thus improving the ability of credit providers and borrowers to make informed lending and borrowing decisions.