Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc has upgraded its mobile app by introducing exciting features to enable seamless transactions for its customers. The mobile app tagged ‘Super App,’ according to a statement from the bank, consists of the entire range of the Stanbic IBTC Group products such as My Bank, Mutual Funds, Pension, @Ease, Insurance and Stockbroking. It further stated that the app offers quick log-in capability with facial and fingerprint biometric options, strong customer data protection and voice banking features. It also contains features such as instant soft loans for customers through the instant cash advance/EZ cash, bills payment, and funds transfer. Other offers from the Super App include Automated Teller machine (ATM) cardless withdrawals, loading of prepaid cards and payment of multiple beneficiaries, amongst others. Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, Dr. Demola Sogunle, said the upgraded mobile app was a restatement of the organisation’s commitment to providing seamless and unique banking experiences to its customers. “The upgrade of our mobile application is in furtherance of our digitisation agenda. This is driven by our desire to drive optimum satisfaction amongst our numerous customers. “The super app offers our clients the opportunity to transact across the range of financial services we offer, ranging from core banking transactions to managing mutual funds, pensions, insurance and stockbroking accounts,” he stated. Other functions of the super app include the customers’ ability to subscribe to and withdraw from mutual funds; application for insurance policies and management of their stockbroking and pensions accounts, regardless of having a functional Stanbic IBTC Bank account. The Stanbic IBTC Holdings Chief Executive stated further: “Our upgraded app is revolutionary and a first in the Nigerian market. Being a universal financial services organisation, we continually explore avenues of easing financial transactions. Our customers and clients will indeed find the additional functionalities invaluable.”