Says ex-speaker fabricator of lies By Segun Awofadeji Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed yesterday debunked all the allegations levelled against him by the former Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, and berated him “for fabricating lies against my person”. The governor debunked the allegations while answering questions from Government House reporters shortly after receiving in audience, communities from Dass, Bogoro and Tafawa Balewa Federal constituency who paid him a solidarity visit at the Government House, Bauchi. Mohammed who said despite the allegations by Dogara, he does not hold malice against him, explained that he joined politics not to make money, but to serve the electorate through good representation. According to him, “I am highly emotional and I feel with the sense of fulfillment and appreciation to the electorate of Bauchi especially Dass, Tafawa Balewa and Bogoro without any interventions they brought their leaders in front of Government House in Bauchi to affirm their loyalty and readiness to continue in the movement we have started in PDP irrespective of what happened with regards to the defection of our brother, Hon. Yakubu Dogara.” “Yes, his defection is regrettable development; it is unfortunate because he is a young man that we loved him so much, but he decided to come to show his true colour as a fabricator of lies against my person who has helped him to reconnect and capture his mandate as a member of the Federal House of Representatives after he was denied opportunity by the former governor.” “Look at the contracts Dogara awarded in his constituency, the amount is beyond expectations, but look at the road project we awarded in Burga and the amount budgeted for the project. The governor, who expressed gratitude to the delegation for the visit, reassured them of his administration’s desire to ensure their safety at all times in addition to the provision of social amenities. “I must to appreciate you for what you did to me in 2019 general election, the votes I scored is more than that of Yakubu Dogara; it shows that you participated fully in my election.” “I am doing politics not for money but for my people, I have never disrespected Yakubu Dogara despite the allegations.” The governor, who regretted the defection of Dogara, wished him well in his future political ambitions and endeavours. “I want to assure the leadership of PDP in Nigeria that Bauchi is still in PDP. As a point of responsibility of leadership, we will not allow any security breach. Yakubu Dogara is free to actualisate his ambition – even try to be bigger than what he is now or trying to run away from some fears. “He will continue to be my brother, but I think he should think that, all what he is doing now is not good for him.”