* IG: 41, 863 personnel promoted since January, Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja The federal government said yesterday it was committed to ongoing police reforms aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the force. This comes as the Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, said 41, 863 officers and men were promoted to the next rank as a way of motivating the work force. Speaking during the decoration of 10 newly promoted senior police officers at the Louis Edet Police Force Headquarters in Abuja, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, said government was committed to delivering an efficient police force. He assured “of the federal government’s commitment to the ongoing reforms of the Nigeria Police Force by the Inspector General of Police”. The decoration ceremony comes on the heels of the recent promotion of 6,601 personnel of the Nigeria Police Force including one DIG, four AIGs, three CPs, three DCPs, 8 CSPs, 607 SPs, 206 DSPs and 5,769 ASPs. The SGF congratulated the newly promoted officers and charged them to see the promotion as a call for improved services to the nation. In his remarks, the IG affirmed that since his assumption of office in January, 2019, a total of 41,863 officers and men of the force across different ranks were promoted to their next rank. He stated that the promotion exercise was a strategic management approach directed at motivating the workforce in addressing current and emerging internal security threats. He said the exercise “has been guided by the principles of seniority and merit and reflective of records of discipline and invaluable experience”. Adamu, while congratulating the officers for their well- deserved elevation, charged them to deploy their intellect and demonstrate sound professional judgment in all their decisions at all times. The officers decorated include DIG Adeleye Olusola Oyebade, who until his promotion to the enviable rank of Deputy Inspector General of Police, was a directing staff at the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPPS). He was deployed as the DIG in charge of the Department of Research and Planning. Also, in line with geo-political balancing considerations, he doubles as the DIG in-charge of the South-west geo-political zone of the country, a void created by the recent retirement of DIG Peter Babatunde Ogunyanwo. Others decorated are AIG Amba A.A Asuquo, AIG Nkereuwem A. Akpan, AIG Olafimihan Adeniran Adeoye, AIG Aishatu Abubakar, CP Jonathan Towuru, CP Sylvester Abiodin Alabi, CP Sikiru Kayode Akande, DCP Johnson Oluwole Adenola and DCP Grema Jibir Isa, a Police statement said.