Championship winners Leeds want QPR playmaker Eberechi Eze to lead their return to the Premier League. Marcelo Bielsa has identified the exciting England Under-21 international as the creative spark his team will need next season. And he is ready to outbid Spurs, West Ham and Crystal Palace for the 22-year-old Londoner who has been earning rave reviews this season. Sunsport understands that Leeds first declared their interest in Eze in January and told QPR that they would come in with a firm bid if they were promoted. Now they are preparing to fulfil that promise when the transfer window officially opens next Monday. Eze, who has scored 13 goals and provided eight assists this season, is valued at £20million by QPR. The West London club feared that price would drop as a result of the pandemic which has restricted the spending ability of every club. But with so much competition for the attacking midfielder QPR are still hoping to get close to the full asking price for their star player. West Ham boss David Moyes was at Loftus Road last Saturday to see Eze’s Man of the Match performance in QPR’s 4-3 win against Millwall. And after paying £22m to sign Jarrod Bowen from Hull in January, Moyes has no concerns about paying big money for a player with no Premier League experience. But master tactician Bielsa has made it clear to Leeds owner Andrea Radrizzani that Eze is exactly the kind of prospect his team should be looking to sign. Radrizzani this week has been speaking about the possibility of bringing veteran superstars Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Edinson Cavani to Elland Road as free agents. But the £200,000-a-week wage demands of both players would be way beyond Leeds’ reach and Eze would be a much more realistic long-term investment. QPR boss Mark Warburton is resigned to losing Eze this summer as his club struggle to make ends meet as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. He has already agreed a £4.75m fee with Bruge for winger Bright Osayi-Samuel but has been allowed to spend £2.1m of that money to sign striker Kieffer Moore from hard-up Wigan.