By Francis Sardauna in Katsina and Igbawase Ukumba The Chief Army Staff (COAS), Lt. General Tukur Buratai, has again vowed to flush out bandits in Katsina State in order to end the upsurge of insecurity confronting the state. He said the Nigerian Army was leaving no stone unturned in combating banditry and other criminal activities orchestrated by bandits in the state and the nation in general. Buratai spoke at the weekend while distributing COVID-19 palliatives to over 5,000 vulnerable persons in Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State. The disbursement of the palliatives is part of the week-long activities lined up for 2020 Nigerian Army Day Celebration, ongoing in the state. He assured Katsina residents that ending banditry and other heinous crimes in the state remained the key priority of Nigerian soldiers currently fighting the hoodlums in communities across the state. Buratai, represented by the General Officer Commanding 3 Division Jos, Maj-Gen Nuhu Angbazo, said the Special Army Super Camp IV in Faskari, was established to serve as a platform for troops in theatre of operations to deal decisively with bandits terrorising communities in the state. Consequently, he urged the people of Katsina, Kaduna, Zamfara, Sokoto, Kebbi and Niger States to continue to support the Nigerian soldiers towards surmounting the challenges of insecurity in the region. He said: “May I use this opportunity to inform you that the Nigerian Army is leaving no stone unturned in curbing criminal activities and ensuring the general security of the country. “I call on you to support our troops by providing all the necessary information they may require to support our information gathering so as to curb the spread of banditry and other criminal activities in Katsina State and beyond.” He, however, said the distribution of palliatives to vulnerable persons was done simultaneously across the 36 States of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), to cushion the effects of the pandemic and support the civil populace. He said the Nigerian Army has over the years through its corporate social responsibility programmes, taken deliberate steps towards ensuring that it gives back to the society, hence the donation. Buratai added that the gesture was also aimed at supporting the federal government’s efforts in cushioning the effect of the global health crisis on vulnerable households across the country. Meanwhile, Buratai at the weekend also assured the people of Doma community in Nasarawa State of the Nigerian Army’s readiness to defend and protect their lives and property. Buratai gave the assurance in Doma, the host community to the 4 Special Forces Command Headquarters of the Nigeria Army, when distributing palliatives to 300 vulnerable persons of the community in commemoration of this year’s Nigerian Army Day celebration. The Chief of Army Staff, who was represented at the event by the Commandant of the 4 Special Forces Command, Maj-Gen. Moundhey Ali, said: “The host community should take it and understand that the Nigerian Army has the community at heart to defend, protect their lives and property, as well as maintain good neighbourliness.” The commandant distributed the palliatives to the less-privileged on behalf of the Chief of Army Staff at the palace of the Andoma of Doma in Doma town. Speaking to journalists shortly after distributing the palliatives, the commandant said the palliative comprised bags of rice, beverages, and condiments which the Chief of Army Staff directed should be distributed to touch their lives.