Igbawase Ukumba in Lafia Suspected kidnappers last Tuesday evening invaded Gudi, the ancestral home town of Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State in Akwanga Local Government Area, killing two persons and abducting other. The victims are both nephew and niece of former Minister of Information, Mr. Labaran Maku. The scene of the incident is not up to 500 meters away from the railway crossing and the Governor Sule’s farm gate, where a detachment of police officers is stationed. When THISDAY visited the scene of the incident, it was gathered that the gunmen stormed the residence of Salisu Usman, immediate elder brother to Labaran Maku, along the railway line in Gudi around 8p.m. last Tuesday evening and shot sporadically killing his daughter and taking his son and wife to an unknown destination. The late Sa’adatu Usman, was a 400 level student of Usman Danfodio University Sokoto, while her elder brother, Salisu Usman, who was kidnapped along with his wife, was an officer with the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) in Lafia. Usman (Immigration officer’s) corpse was later discovered behind the house in the bush yesterday afternoon. Father of the victims, ASP Salisu Usman (rtd), who spoke to THISDAY, said the house was besieged by the gunmen via the fence and fired three shots at the late Sa’adatu through her room window and killed her. “I was at the dining table eating when I heard the gun shots, and as a retired police officer, I concluded that these are robbers, then shortly, I heard my children screaming, as their late sister was in a pool of
blood. “I quickly put a call to one of my friends who is also a retired police officer, but before the police came, they had killed my daughter and went away with my son, who is an Immigration officer, and his wife,” he narrated. Chairman of Akwanga LGA, Mr. Samuel Meshi, who was at the scene of the incident alongside the DPO and Police Area Commander, confirmed the incident and the death. When contacted, Comptroller of Immigration in the state, Zainab Lawal, confirmed the incident. Lawal said: “Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) officer, Superintendent Salisu Usman, and his wife have been abducted at gunpoint, while his sister was shot dead.”