By Olawale Ajimotokan Nigeria’s Georgia Oboh has secured one of the final two invitations for the Aberdeen Standard Investments Ladies Scottish Open taking place next month between August 13 and 16 at The Renaissance Club in North Berwick, as professional women’s golf returns to Scotland for the first time since the 2019 Solheim Cup last September. The second slot went to Scotland’s highest ranked player on the Rolex Rankings, Gemma Dryburgh. Oboh is the first Nigerian golfer to win her card on the Ladies European Tour (LET). She berthed the tournament as an invitee of the tournament sponsor, Aberdeen Standard Investments for the accolades she has received in her short professional career and to provide inspiration and opportunities for the next generation of talented women to participate in events of this stature. “I am really grateful to receive this invitation into such an important event on the LET and LPGA Tours. I have been working very hard to be ready to play amongst so many of the world’s best players and I think it will give me invaluable experience as I work towards achieving my dream of being the first Nigerian to win on the professional golf circuit,” Oboh said. Jill Maxwell, Head of Brand Activation at Aberdeen Standard Investments, expressed delight to welcome both Gemma and Georgia into the Ladies Scottish Open field. She also noted that inviting Georgia as one of the highest ranked African golfers, implied that the sponsorship of the Ladies Scottish Open will offer opportunity for the development of talented players and that golf, as a sport, is increasingly accessible to everyone. ” Both Gemma and Georgia are great female role models, paving the way for other girls from all backgrounds to achieve their dreams too,” Maxwell said. The field for the 2020 event is even stronger than last year with three of the world’s top ten ranked players on the Rolex Women’s World Golf Rankings in the field – Japan’s Nasa Hataoka,(No.4) America’s Danielle Kang (No.5) and Australia’s Minjee Lee. (No.8) There are 22 players ranked within the World’s Top 50, seven of the top 10 players currently leading the LPGA Race to CME and all of the top 20 on the final 2019 LET Order of Merit. The other two tournament invitations were awarded last week to Japan’s Hinako Shibuno, the AIG Women’s Open’s defending Champion and Scotland’s Catriona Matthew, a two-time winner of the Aberdeen Standard Investments Ladies Scottish Open in 2011 and 2013 and a Women’s British Open winner in 2009. This year’s tournament is going ahead as a made for TV event following close consultation and collaboration with the Scottish Government, Aberdeen Standard Investments, VisitScotland, the LPGA and the LET, fully adhering to internationally recognised COVID-19 protocol.