Chuks Okocha in Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) wednesday charged the presidency to immediately respond to comments by the Chairman of Senate Committee on Army, Senator Ali Ndume, that the Muhammadu Buhari administration’s alleged underfunding of the military is responsible for the persistent insecurity challenges in the nation. The party also criticised Katsina State Governor, Hon. Aminu Bello Masari, for blaming the opposition for the banditry in the state.
The party in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, described as worrisome, the comments by Ndume, who on a national television on Tuesday night, restated his position that the Buhari’s administration is not adequately funding the military. The PDP noted that Ndume’s comments deserves clarification from the presidency in view of the worsening security situation in the country. The party, he said, was equally worried that President Muhammadu Buhari had failed to lead from the front as he promised in addition to failure to heed the demands by Nigerians to change his service chiefs and inject new blood into the nation’s security outfits. The PDP, in berating Masari, expressed concerns that the governor resorted to playing politics with the lives of Nigerians in Katsina State by blaming political rivals, when it is public knowledge that he knows the bandits and have been having dealings with them. The party, however, observed that Masari’s comments have escalated public apprehension over his government’s alleged complicity in the banditry ravaging the state. PDP cited Masari’s September 2019 meeting with the bandits and much-publicised ceasefire agreement he signed with them as indicative of his connections with the outlaws. It added that Masari, in June 2020, also announced that his peace agreement with the bandits had collapsed because, according to him, the bandits breached the agreement. “Our party therefore urges Governor Masari to come clean on his connections with the bandits and stop pointing accusing fingers on imaginary political rivals, apparently to divert public attention from deeper issues relating to banditry in his state,” it added. The PDP urged security agencies not to be distracted by Masari’s comments, which is ostensibly to cover for his alleged failures in ensuring security in the state. The PDP called on Masari to look for excuses elsewhere as no opposition group is behind the banditry in the state or any part of the country for that matter.