To reduce Covid-19 mortality rate in Nigeria, Lagos and Ogun state to be precise, Neimeth International Pharmaceuticals Plc, has joined force in partnership with the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Zone 2 Lagos. Addressing journalists and other attendants during the Media Launch and Public Presentation of FRSC Covid-19 Public Enlightenment Kiosks, recently in Lagos , in his presented speech, Chief Executive Officer, Neimeth, Pharm. Mattew Azoji, noted partnering with FRSC is to take the campaign against deadly Covid-19 to the grassroots across Lagos and Ogun state. He said it’s awful that some Nigerians are yet to believe the existence of Covid-19, as the presented Kiosks will take the campaign to the citizens and preventive measures as directed by the World Health Organisation (WHO). He said : “Today, on behalf of the board, management and staff of Neimeth International Pharmaceuticals Plc., I wish to commend the Federal Road Safety Corps Lagos Zone 2 for this excellent initiative of the provision of COVID-19 public Enlightenment kiosks. Beyond this, this pannership is historical on the FRSC Zone 2 Lagos is the first federal government establishment organisation we are partnering with on COVID-19. FRSC Zone 2 Lagos COVID-l9 Enlightenment kiosks is a worthy campaign as it seeks to improve the quality of life of our citizens in this era of COVI9-l9 pandemic as we are all witnessing, We are Proud of FRSC Zone 2 Lagos and are tremendously excited to be in partnership with you in a worthy cause such as this. “The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has confirmed that us of antiseptic/disinfectant, including soaps, are potent against use of Coronavirus. With regular antiseptic use, disease spread can be curtailed or prevented even at periods when water may not be available through the use of hand sanitizers. Considering the over-crowded nature of different areas of our society as potential venues for spread of diseases and infections, appropriate steps and care must be taken to forestall the possibility of such diseases or infections spreading. This is what makes the FRSC partnership campaign through the provision of public enlightenment kiosks, a worthy objective. Antiseptics or Disinfectants are more or less used to promote personal and Environmental hygiene. “Our use of NCP liquid and Hand Sanitizers for this Partnership is very apt. NCP will help to promote NCDC’s recommendation of maintenance of regular Personal and Environmental Hygiene as an effective Way to prevent contracting diseases and infections including COVID-19. Based on this same recommendation,NCP can be used to sanitize hands in the absence of water used to clean and disinfect surfaces in the home or office, and above all, maintain persona| and environmental hygiene”. In reciprocation, the Deputy Corps Commander (Administration and Human Resources) FRSC Zone RS2HQ Lagos, Innocent Etuk, commended Neimeth for the partnership against Covid-19. He said the corps will at the course of discharging their duties will also spread the gospel of preventions against deadly Covid-19 with encrypt messages on presented kiosks and distribution of fliers. “Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC has a vision: To eradicate Road Traffic Crashes, (RTC) and create a safe motoring environment in Nigeria with a mission: To regulate, enforce and coordinate all traffic and safety management activities through: sustained public enlightenment, prompt rescue services, promotion of stakeholders’ cooperation among others. In view of the fore going, the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic has changed the narrative at the world stage, with over 9 million people infected and over 480 thousand deaths globally. “It is on this note that FRSC in partnership with Neimeth International Pharmaceuticals Plc., came up with a medium of reducing the number of lives lost daily to RTCs and the Covid-19 which is advocacy and public enlightenment on the importance of good health, hygiene, social distancing and use of face masks especially to the motoring public in order to stay alive. “To this end, we want to thank the Management of Neimeth International pharmaceuticals Plc. for deeming it fit to partner with FRSC To curb The Spread of COVID19 by the provision of kiosks and flyers for our’ advocacy and public enlightenment. “On behalf of The Zonal Commanding Officer, Zone RS2HQ Lagos, ACM Samuel A Obayemi, we welcome you and appreciate your kind gesture” he said.