Bulk Buyers Connect has unveiled its brand ambassador. The unveiling ceremony took place in Abuja recently. Bulk Buyers Connect was created to support very busy professionals, business men and women who need a trusted online platform to shop for their regular family groceries without having to visit the markets at very affordable prices. The Chief Operating Officer of the company, David Egwu, explained that part of the goal of the company was to build a community of clients that can develop the culture of planning their purchases and thus cut costs. According to him, the essence of the Bulk Buyers Connect was to leverage the power of numbers in negotiating best possible prices for their clients. Egwu, also highlighted the feedback generated from customers already as a further confirmation of the commitment of the company to excellent services. He added: ”We are raising the bar and we are challenging ourselves to serve our clients with unprecedented creativity and excellence, we believe that every Nigerian deserves the best possible service there is while staying safe given the recent pandemic that requires people to avoid crowded areas like markets. “Today, we unveil two very fine and inspiring creative Nigerians Stars in the person of Mollybrown Malumi (a fast rising gospel Artist) and Ace Abuja based comedian Shortcut. “We believe that many more Nigerians need to know about our services and that the introduction of these two ambassadors will help extend the visibility of our brand and services so that many more Nigerians can leverage on our platform to save time and money while focusing on their areas of productivity. “As part of our efforts to alleviate the sufferings faced by some Nigerians as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, we deliver all products ordered via our website and app free to any part of Abuja.” Bulk Buyers Connect deliveries are done weekly on Fridays to Saturdays. All orders made on or before Wednesday of every week are delivered on Friday/Saturday of the same week while any order after Wednesdays are delivered on Friday/Saturday of the following week.