By Vanessa Obioha The premium online and mobile sports betting platform across Africa, Betway, has announced that Big Brother Naija host Ebuka Obi-Uchendu and artiste and music producer Don Jazzy will be the brand’s ambassadors for the fifth season of the reality TV show. At a virtual press conference, Chris Ubosi, the brand’s representative in Nigeria, disclosed that the two celebrities will represent the brand in Nigeria during the Big Brother Naija season and after the show ends. “They will be representatives of Betway in all things entertainment and technology during this period and beyond and they will serve as partners and advocates for Betway and everything that we do, so that they will help us engage with Nigerians in Africa, both on traditional media as well as on social media where we expect them to bring to the table their creativity, their voices and passion to help promote the spirit of fair competition, which is something that we are very passionate about,” says Ubosi. Reacting to his appointment, Don Jazzy expressed excitement on being part of the journey. “Last year, I didn’t follow the show from the beginning because I was busy at the time, but this time around, I will be driving the conversations from the get go. It’s going to be an interesting season with Betway. “Everything is all familiar at this point. Betway is a brand that is recognisable anywhere in the world and partnering with the biggest show on the continent Big Brother Naija is a good partnership. It’s going to be a very easy relationship,” Obi-Uchendu said. The global betting entertainment brand was announced as the headline sponsor of the reality show last month, making it the second betting platform to throw its weight behind the popular show. The country manager of Betway Nigeria, Lere Awokoya, in his opening remarks explained why they got on board with the show. “First of all, I have to reiterate that we are really excited about this because we all know how much of a monster the Big Brother Nigeria platform is. But one of the reasons why we thought it was a seamless fit between the Big Brother Naija and Betway Nigeria brand was based on the similarities that both platforms share. Of course, we’re both providing entertainment to similar demographics, but what’s on top of the list in terms of our similarities is the passion that we have for the games. We love to showcase these games because we understand that our consumers, whether it’s the Betway consumers or the Big Brother Naija consumers love the games and the entertainment that we provide,” Awokoya said. The fifth season of the show will premiere Sunday, July 19 on Africa Magic channels on DStv and GOtv. The winner of this season will also be smiling home with N85 million grand prize.