By Adedayo Akinwale The Screening Committee set up by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to screen governorship aspirants, ahead of the July 20 primary election in Ondo State has disqualified one of the aspirants. It was however gathered that Dr. Abraham Michael, was the aspirant disqualified by the committee. The committee made this known yesterday when it submitted its report to the caretaker committee led by the Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, at the national secretariat of the party in Abuja. The Chairman of the Screening Committee, Mr. Tijani Tumsa, revealed that the aspirants were scored based on their presentations, educational qualifications, among others, but added that one of the 12 aspirants failed to meet up with the requirements set by the party. He said, “We commenced the screening exercise two days ago. There were 12 aspirants in all and I’m glad to report that they all showed up for the exercise and we were able to conduct the screening within the two days stipulated. “The committee decided that the aspirants be scored base on their presentations, educational qualifications, their commitment to the party, knowledge of the constitution, community service, manifesto of the APC, their team spirit and working experience. “Of the 12 aspirants, the committee has deemed it possible to qualify eleven of the aspirants to contest for the primary. We understand of course that the 12th aspirant has the option of appealing the decision of the committee.” Tumsah noted that the aspirants cooperated in no small measures to the success of the exercise, and also thanked the party for finding the members of the committee worthy to conduct exercise. The aspirants who participated in the screening exercise are: the state Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, Mr. Joseph Olusola Iji, Odimayo Okunjimi, Olayide Owolabi Adelami, Issac Kekemeke, Olusola Oke, lfeoluwa Oyedele and Olajumoke Anifowoshe. Others are: Awodeyi Colinus, Olubukola Adetula, Dr.Abraham Michael and Dr. Nathaniel Adojutelegan. Receiving the report on behalf of Buni, the caretaker committee’s secretary, Sen. John Udoehe, commended the committee for doing a diligent exercise. He however assured that the report would be transferred to the appeal committee for necessary action.