By Omon-Julius Onabu The Delta State Government 2020 Appropriation Bill has been passed by the state House of Assembly after its third reading on the floor of the House at plenary presided over by the Speaker, Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori. The state 2020 budget, which had earlier been reviewed downward by the state government on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, stands now at N282,331,896,385 (two hundred and eighty-two billion, three hundred and thirty-one million, eight hundred and ninety-six thousand, three hundred and eighty-five naira). The amount as passed by the House is made up of N152.5 billion (one hundred and fifty-two point five billion naira) for Recurrent Expenditure and N129.9 billion (one hundred and twenty-nine point nine billion naira) for Capital Expenditure. The passage of the revised appropriation bill followed receipt of the report at plenary from the House Committee on Finance and Appropriation, which was mandated to scrutinise the bill after passing second reading. The Deputy Chairman of the Committee and member representing Ika South, Hon. Festus Okoh, said that recommendations were made after intense scrutiny of the amendment bill. Okoh observed that the budget was designed along guidelines sent to the states from the federal government and in line with World Bank recommendations. The Bill was read the third time and passed following a motion to that effect by the Majority Leader, Hon. Tim Owhefere, and unanimously adopted. Nevertheless, Speaker Oborevwori commended members for painstakingly working on the bill and ensuring its immediate consideration. The state revised budget for the 2020 fiscal year was transmitted to the State House of Assembly last Tuesday by the state governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa. The Governor said the proposed sum was an upward review of the Budget, recalling that the House had earlier in May this year passed a downward review of the Budget to the sum of N279,784,088,045 (two hundred and seventy-nine billion, seven hundred and eighty-four million, eighty-eight thousand and forty-five naira). The governor noted that the recent development was “in compliance with the Federal Government’s plan at developing and implementing a nationally responsive integrated policy framework to address the economic distortions caused by the COVID-19 global pandemic”.