Boxing in Nigeria is set to receive a huge boost following the completion of a standard boxing facility, the Mojisola Ogunsanya Memorial/GOtv Boxing Gym, which is expected to be commissioned soon. Located in a serene location in Lagos, the boxing gym is the brainchild of Mr. Chairman, MultiChoice Nigeria and GOtv Boxing, Mr. Adewunmi Ogunsanya. The multimillion-naira gym, funded by Ogunsanya, is conceived as a pre-bout preparation facility for local and international boxers coming to fight in Nigeria as well as an academy for nurturing young and promising boxers to stardom. The facility, which has a hostel to accommodate 30 boxers at a time and located in an expansive compound, is fitted with modern training equipment such as a standard ring, thread mills, punching and speed bags, double-end bags, wrecking ball snatchers, sparring mitts, focus mitts and bar bells among others. The gym will also provide boxers with gears such as hand wraps, gum shields and mitt gloves. Boxers will be supervised by some of the most accomplished boxing coaches in the country Being residential, it is fully air-conditioned and has an assortment of leisure facilities, including satellite television facilities and board games. Boxers in training and their coaches will also be fed throughout their stay in the facility. Giving reasons for setting up the gym, Ogunsanya said it is a continuation of the efforts, which began in 2014, at reviving the sport in Nigeria. “We are happy about the progress Nigerian boxing has made since the intervention through GOtv Boxing Night began in 2014. “But there is a need to accelerate the progress by ensuring we address the dearth of training facilities in the country. “We have talented boxers, who are disadvantaged by the inadequacy of training facilities and proper grooming. We believe that this gym will go a long way in addressing that challenge and help to bring our boxers to par with their colleagues abroad,” Ogunsanya said. CEO, Flykite Productions, organisers of GOtv Boxing Night, Jenkins Alumona, commended Ogunsanya for his commitment to the growth of Nigerian boxing. GOtv, promoted by MultiChoice, has been the biggest supporter of the sport in Nigeria over the last six years through GOtv Boxing Night, which has revived the sport by providing regular bouts through which boxers have earned considerably bigger remunerations and benefitted from exposure to international audience via SuperSport, which broadcasts the event live to 49 African countries. GOtv Boxing Night also gave rise to GOtv Boxing NextGen Search, an initiative to identify and nurture deserving talents to full professional status.