By Francis Sardauna The Katsina State Police Command has said it has killed three bandits and recovered one AK-47 rifle, six motorcycles and 17 cattle in Ruwan-Dorawa village of Dutsin-ma Local Government Area of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Gambo Isah, stated this last Wednesday evening while parading some suspects at the command’s headquarters in Katsina. Isah, a superintendent of police, said the police received a distress call at about 01:00hrs that bandits in their numbers, armed with AK-47 rifles, invaded the village and rustled unspecified number of cattle and sheep. He said the operatives of Counter Terrorist Unit (CTU) and vigilance group led by the Area Commander of Dutsin-ma, ACP Aminu Umar, swiftly moved to the area and ambushed and engaged the hoodlums in a gun duel. “The team went after the hoodlums and blocked their possible exit route, engaged them further in a gun battle. The team succeeded in killing three bandits, recovered one AK-47 rifle, six motorcycles abandoned by the bandits, 17 cows and 40 sheep. Investigation is however still ongoing,” Isah said.
He, however, said the command had also intercepted a Volkswagen Golf car in Mai’addua LGA and rescued nine victims of human trafficking. According to him, the victims, whose ages range from 17 to 36, were conveyed on the vehicle by one Alkasim Ibrahim of Zango LGA trafficking them to Libya. He said: “On July 25 at about 12:00hrs, Joint Border Patrol team attached to Mai’addua division intercepted a vehicle, Volkswagen Golf III with Registration number: ZNG 43 XA, driven by one Alkasim Ibrahim, 24, of Zango LGA of Katsina State conveying the following persons on transit to Libya on human trafficking. “Those being trafficked are Aderibigbe Adedanika Samuel, 27, a male, from Abeokuta, Ogun State; Babantude Kunle Adewale, 34, a male, from Ipara, Ogun State, and Idowu Samuel Abiodun, 36, also a male, from Ogbomoso Town, Oyo State.
“Others are Shukurat Jibril, 19, a female, from Ijebu Waterside, Ogun State; Waliyat Sumonu, 23, a female from Abeokuta, Ogun State; Rita Jonah, 29, a female from Warri in Delta State; Barakat Azeez, 22, a female from Ado Ekiti; Islamiyat Oyinlola, 17, a female from Iragbiji, Osun State and Oluwaseyin Rachel, 26, a female from Ilesha in Osun State.