Chuks Okocha in Abuja Owing to some differences within the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in four states out of the 26 states where proposed state congresses was to be held, the party has postponed its planned congresses in Ekiti, Niger, Sokoto and Taraba States. No new date was given as to when the congresses will take place. THISDAY learnt that one of the reasons for the postponement of the state congress in Ekiti State was due to the power struggle between the former state Governor, Ayo Fayose, and Senator Biodun Olujimi. In Ekiti State, the ward congress was slated to hold on July 27 in two wards, and the local government areas congresses to be held on August 8 while the state congress will hold on August 12 2020. Sokoto State PDP was listed as having completed its wards congresses, but was scheduled to hold local government areas and state congresses on August 8 and 12 respectively before the postponement. Taraba State, it was learnt, has completed its wards congresses, but was to hold the local government areas and state congresses on August 8 and 12 respectively. In Niger and Taraba States, it was gathered that the states requested for a change of dates due to the Salah holidays According to a letter issued by the National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, and the National Secretary, Senator Umar Tsauri, titled: ‘Re: Re: Year 2020 Party Congresses in 26 Chapters of the PDP Postponement of Party Congresses in Ekiti, Niger, Sokoto and Taraba States’, which was addressed to the chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on July 27, PDP said it was postponing the state congresses in the four state due to unforeseen circumstances. The letter from the PDP notifying INEC of the shift stated: “Please refer to our earlier letter with reference No: PDP/DOM CF. 2/VolIC/20-094, in which we informed INEC of our time table and schedule of activities for the completion of the outstanding congresses of our party. “Due to unforeseen circumstances, we are compelled to postpone our planned congresses in the aforementioned states. “We will communicate to the commission as soon as a new date is fixed.”