By Alex Enumah A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), has issued a bench warrant for the arrest of the immediate past Clerk of the National Assembly, Mr. Mohammed Omolori. The warrant, which was issued on Monday by Justice Suleiman Belgore was sequel to an ex parte application filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) seeking an order of the court for the arrest of Omolori. The anti-graft agency in the motion marked M/8728/2020, alleged that the respondent had ignored its invitation for him to report to the EFCC’s office over an investigation of a petition. According to the commission, Omolori is being investigated over his alleged complicity in the diversion of 14 Toyota Hilux vehicles and 13 Peugeot 508 valued at over N400 million. The EFCC said that it has invited the Secretary of the National Assembly Commission, Mr. Adamu Mohammed Fika; Mr. Oluseye Ajakaye and others to its office. It further stated that the invitees made revelations indicting Omolori, upon which, letters were sent to him on November 4, 2019, which he failed to honour. He was accused of dishonouring a similar letter dated March 16, 2020. In view of his failure to honour the invitations, the EFCC stated that it was left with no option than to approach the court for warrant of arrest to be issued against the respondent. Belgore granted the order as prayed after listening to the counsel for EFCC, Mr. S.N. Robert. “I have considered the application. I averted to Paragraph 7 of the supporting affidavit and Exhibit EFCC 4 wherein the respondent was said to have ignored invitations to report in the applicant’s office without any justifiable reason. “It is clear to me that Section 3 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA), 2015 can be invoked in the circumstances of this case in granting this application and I so do. “Warrant of immediate arrest is hereby issued against Alhaji Mohammed Sani Omolori, the former Clerk of the National Assembly forthwith,” Justice Belgore ordered.