* 35 Kwara doctors test positive for virus Martins Ifijeh in Lagos and Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Nigeria has recorded 595 new cases of COVID-19, bringing to 33,153 the number of confirmed cases in the country. Announcing this yesterday, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said Lagos recorded 156 new cases; Oyo, 141; Federal Capital Territory (FCT), 99; Edo, 47; Kaduna, 27; Ondo, 22; Rivers, 20; Osun, 17; Imo, 13; Plateau, 10; Nasarawa and Anambra, eight each; Kano, Benue and Borno, five each; Ogun, four; Taraba and Gombe, three each; while Kebbi and Cross River recorded one each. It said: “Nigeria has recorded 33,153 cases of COVID-19. 13,671 patients have been discharged, while 744 persons have died.” Meanwhile, no fewer than 35 medical doctors in Kwara State have so far tested positive to COVID-19 pandemic in the state. Kwara State Chairman of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), Dr. Kolade Solagberu told reporters in Ilorin, the state capital at this year Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the association. Solagberu, however, said that the association had not recorded any casualty among its members. The NMA chairman told residents of the state that COVID-19 is real, urging them to disregard rumours saying the pandemic was only a money- making avenue for the government. “Residents should help the doctors to help them by not paying unnecessary visits or consultations to hospitals. “For now, people should avoid visiting the hospital except for life threatening issues. “We advise people to engage in e-health service instead of physical consultation to avoid contact as much as possible. “People should stop unnecessary visit to patients in the hospital. Those who follow a patient waiting to be attended to, are not encouraged for now. “You should just help us to help you because the less the number of patient we attend to, the less the chances of spreading the virus. “This is because every patient is a potential COVID-19 case.” The NMA chairman commended the Federal and State governments for continuous closure of schools, adding that safety should be paramount until the coast is clear. As at 7 p.m on Sunday, Kwara state had 401 confirmed cases of coronavirus, 208 active patients, 179 persons discharged and 14 deaths.