With technology shrinking the world to a global village. Outcomexpo, a mobile friendly indigenous solution that allows event organisers to run trade shows and exhibitions has been launched into the Nigerian market. Speaking to Technology Journalists at the weekend via virtual press conference, Maritha Anyanwu, Head, Media & Publicity Outcomexpo.com said that the development of the solution was informed as a result of Covid-19 which now compelled the event industry across the globe to look for new and innovative ways to stay relevant. “Under these circumstances, Outcomexpo stepped up to fill the much-needed gap and bring relief by launching a world-class Digital Expo Center which can be used by any organiser accross the globe. “It is mobile-friendly and allows Organisers to host Digital Trade Shows. Buyers from the comfort of their homes or offices can attend without physical and geographical barriers associated with traditional expos”, she explained.
While the solution enables exhibitors to understand and get insights to buyers behaviour via rich reporting and advanced analytics, by showcasing on the digital platform, she added that organisers get huge cost savings on venue, travel, hotel, logistics and other expenses. “Buyers have ease of registration and access from the comfort of their homes without going through hassles and stress just to get to the venue. They also have Real-time live chat and 1-1 video with Exhibitors”, she further explained. Speaking on other features and benefits of the solution, she disclosed that exhibitors could have their customizable display booth showcasing company multimedia elements including e-brochures, posters, videos and more.
Showcase unlimited product offerings with rich content formats and allow attendees to access and explore these offerings from the comforts of their homes, she said. Live communication between Buyers and Exhibitors in real-time through chat facilities and to bring about a more engaging and interactive experience, she said is among unique features of the digital platform. Excellent source of acquisition of new suppliers, possibility of reaching to bulk buyers whom rarely participate in traditional fair, but who spend a lot of time on the internet. Incomparably lower costs of participation in a Digital expo, high return on investment in participating in the Digital expo in comparison with the participation in the traditional expo, are also among the benefits and features of the digital platform.