*  .State govt denies allegation James Sowole in Akure Former Secretary to the Ondo State Government (SSG), Mr. Sunday Abegunfe, has alleged the maltreatment he suffered in the hands of the state Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, which he said made him to resign his appointment. Abegunde yesterday resigned his appointment from the administration of Akeredolu through a letter he personally signed. Speaking on an Akure-based private radio station, Crest FM, Abegunde said his former boss engaged him in cold war for several months. The former SSG claimed that the sufferings he went through by Akeredolu for the three and half years he served were too much to bear. Abegunde, popularly known as Abena, said he was unable to cater for the needs of all his followers because the governor didn’t release any money for his office. Reacting on the N5 million which Akeredolu reportedly said he was giving him as office grants monthly, Abegunde said the governor wasn’t telling the truth, adding that he should come forward with an evidence regarding that. “I was suffering in his administration because he didn’t release any grant for my office. He has been telling lies that he was giving me N5million every month even when he knew he didn’t give me such money. “Where on earth did the governor give me such funds? Recently, I reported him to Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, and he promised to invite both of us to Abuja for settlement. I remember that I told Fayemi that I was going to spit on Akeredolu’s face if he repeated the lie that he was giving me N5million monthly, and I would then return to Akure to resign as well as inform the public of his looting sprees,” Abegunde alleged. On the 2016 governorship poll, Abegunde explained that Akeredolu lost the election to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Eyitayo Jegede. According to him, “It was my powers and that of other All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain that made INEC to declare Akeredolu the winner after he had lost it. “Akeredolu didn’t win the election in 2016 but we made it possible for him to become governor. We were the pillars behind him, but we will not support him again. He will lose this time around.” Abegunde further said he resigned because he could no longer be part of a government that makes its subjects go through hardship. “The government of Akeredolu is making the people of the state to suffer, and I cannot be part of that any longer. Everyone is suffering. He doesn’t pay salaries at the right time. As a matter of fact, Akeredolu has not performed to the expectations of the masses apart from the roads he is building. “Akeredolu has turned former Governor, Mimiko, to a saint with his abysmal performance. We now see that Mimiko did well as governor because he gave his people enough funds to enable them cater for the needs of their own supporters. I had worked with three governors, and I can say that in the history of Ondo State, Akeredolu is the worst governor,” the SSG declared. Reacting to allegations by the former SSG, the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Publicity, Mr. Ojo Oyewamide, said. Abegunde was economical with the truth. According to Oyewamide, “Abegunde received his running grants regularly despite his incompetence for the assignment of his office. “If Akeredolu had maltreated him, why did he wait till three and half years before he resigned?”