By Francis Sardauna The Katsina State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Monday held its state congress to elect new executive members that will spearhead the affairs of the party in the next four years. The 39-member state executive was elected by delegates from 34 local government areas of the state, in an exercise supervised by the chairman of the electoral panel, Mr. Chika Nwazozu, and officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). THISDAY, which monitored the exercise at the state PDP secretariat that lasted till 7:45pm, reports that the congress was peaceful. The party had earlier conducted peaceful congresses across the 361 wards and 34 local government areas of the state. At the congress, Hon. Salisu Yusuf Magijiri was re-elected as the chairman of the party and Mr. Salisu Lawal Uli as deputy chairman. In the same vein, Abubakar Lawal, Sanusi Iliyasu and Bishir Tsani emerged as the Financial Secretary, Secretary and Publicity Secretary respectively. The congress also elected Mr. Yahaya Lawal as treasurer and Hajara Abubakar as state women leader, while Lawal Bature emerged as the state Organizing Secretary, among others. Addressing party members shortly after the exercise, Magijiri said PDP would reclaim the state due to what he termed the failure of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to deliver democratic dividends that will assuage the suffering of the masses. He reiterated that the Governor Aminu Masari-led administration has failed woefully in tackling the prevailing security challenges orchestrated by bandits in the state. He gave the assurance that he would run an open administration and reach out to all aggrieved members of the party to reunite and strengthen PDP in the state. Also speaking, the 2019 governorship standard-bearer of the party, Senator Yakubu Lado Danmarke, said the election of the party’s executives would usher in a repositioned and better PDP in the state. He, therefore, urged PDP stalwarts in the state to put the past challenges behind them and forge a common front ahead of the forthcoming 2023 general election. According to him, PDP remained the only option and political party in the state that could address the predicament confronting the electorate, particularly the rural dwellers.