* Wants re-appointment of Danbatta as EVC of NCC Deji Elumoye in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has written formally to the Senate for the confirmation of 11 judges for the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The request was contained in a letter read at plenary yesterday by the President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan. The President’s letter reads: “In accordance to Section 256(2) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended, I have the honour to forward for confirmation by the Senate, the under-listed names of eleven nominees as Judges of the High Court of the FCT, Abuja. The nominees include: Abubakar Husseini Musa (Adamawa State); Edward Okpe (Benue State); Babashani Abubakar (Borno State); Emuesiri Francis (Delta State); Jude Ogho (Delta State) and Josephine Enobi (Edo State). Others are Christopher Opeyemi Oba (Ekiti State); Mohammed Idris (Kano State); Hassan Maryam Aliyu (Kebbi State); Fashola Akeem Adebowale (Lagos State); and Hamza Muazu (Niger State). Senate Minority Whip, Senator Philip Aduda, while relying on Order 43 of the Senate Standing Rules, however, objected to the absence of a nominee from the FCT. Chairman of the Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, while coming under the same point of order, explained that the FCT already has Judges on the bench of the FCT High Court. He said: “What is being done by the National Judicial Council (NJC) at the moment is to fill existing vacancies on the bench of the FCT Judiciary. What will become an issue is if you take list of the over 40 Judges of the FCT and any particular state is missing, that is when it becomes an issue. “A major criterion is to ensure that states that do not have anybody on the bench are given priority. I just wanted to clarify that FCT has Judges on the bench of the FCT”. The President in another letter also requested the upper chamber to confirm the appointment of three members of the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB). They are: Mr. Ben Umeano (Anambra State – South East); Hon. Johnson Abonaema (Edo State – South South); and Olayinka Babatunde Balogun (Ogun State – South West). Also to be confirmed by the Senate is the re-appointment of Umar Garba Danbatta, as Executive Vice Chairman of the Governing Board of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) for a second term of five years. According to President Buhari, the nominee’s appointment is in accordance with the provision of Section 8(1) of the Nigerian Communications Act 2003. Meanwhile, the confirmation of the nomination of Idahagbon Williams Omoregie for appointment as Commissioner of the Federal Civil Service Commission was referred to the Senate Committee on Establishment and Public Service headed by Senator Ibrahim Shekarau.