Against the backdrop of the clash by the supporters of the governorship of candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki and that of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu in front of the palace of the Oba of Benin last weekend, the monarch, Oba Ewuare II, has issued a stern warning to politicians against turning the state into a war zone in a bid to realise their gubernatorial ambition. He also said that the Benin throne is non-partisan, and warning politicians against turning the state into a war zone as they prepare for the September 19 Edo State governorship election. Reacting to the clash among rival politicians in front of the palace on Saturday, the monarch, through a statement by Secretary of Benin Traditional Council (BTC), Chief Frank Irabor, condemned what he described as unruly behaviour of politicians’ supporters, reiterating that the palace remained non-partisan. The BTC statement said the Oba remained committed to peace and tranquillity in the state, and peaceful governorship elections in the state. The statement said: “The BTC wishes to state that His Royal Majesty warmly welcomed the august visitors led by Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo. “The meeting was cordial. During the meeting, the Oba of Benin recalled the warm reception accorded him by Governor Nyesom Wike and Governor Aminu Tambuwal when he paid a ‘thank-you’ visit to both states. The courtesy of the esteemed august visitors to the monarch ended very well. “We were, therefore, surprised to hear later that there was an incident outside the palace, directly in front of Oredo Local Government Secretariat. His Royal Majesty condemns this unruly behaviour that occurred in front of the Palace. “We wish to emphasise, once more, that the Benin throne is not partisan. “The BTC uses this medium to advise all political party members not to turn Edo State into a war zone because of gubernatorial ambition. “His Royal Majesty is committed to peace and tranquillity in the state and peaceful gubernatorial election.”