Laud pace of work on second Niger Bridge By David-Chyddy Eleke Traditional rulers in Anambra State have tasked President Muhammadu Buhari on the need to dredge the River Niger to make the Onitsha seaport functional. The monarchs spoke through the traditional ruler of Ukwulu Community, Igwe Peter Uyanwa, during a meeting with oil mogul, Prince Arthur Eze, in his palace in Ukwulu Kingdom, Dunukofia Local Government Area of Anambra State. Igwe Uyanwa said Igbo people were predominantly business people, who deal in importation, and that the dredging of the River Niger will save them the troubles of travelling to Lagos frequently to receive their consignment. He commended the president on the projects being aggressively worked on in the South-east geo-political zone, saying they are testimonies of President Buhari’s love for the zone. “We thank Buhari for the second Niger Bridge, the Onitsha-Owerri expressway, the Enugu-Onitsha expressway, the Akanu Ibiam International airport, the zone 13 police command among others. “If you go to the Enugu airport today, it is like an airport in New York. If it was not for the COVID-19, we would have started using the airport long ago. All these are testimonies of the love of Buhari for the people of this region. “We are asking our brother, Prince Arthur Eze to convey our commendation to the president. We are very happy for what he is doing in the zone, and we are happy for our brother (Eze), who is ever supportive of this administration. “We are also pleading with him to dredge the River Niger and make the port functional to help our people who risk their lives from here to Lagos to receive their consignments. We hope he will do this for us,” the traditional rulers said. Other traditional rulers who expressed happiness over projects by the Buhari administration in the region included Igwe Elibe Okonkwo, the traditional ruler of Alor; Igwe Austine Ndigwe of Awka Kingdom; Igwe Chijioke Nwankwo of Nawfia community among others. Prince Eze, who addressed the monarchs, said he would be leading them to President Buhari soon to convey their commendation physically to him. He joined the monarchs to laud President Buhari on his projects in the Southeast and the love of the people of the zone.