To make up for the times lost, Domino’s Pizza, Cold Stone Creamery, and Pinkberry Frozen Yoghurt are giving customers the chance to share with friends its mouthwatering discounts from July 20. The amazing deals and discounts, according to the trio’s, is its way of relishing old time memories with friends to make up for lost times. The offers are: a hot box of pizza delivered to you through zero contact delivery with a free drink for only N2,000 in a matter of minutes. “You can also get to celebrate your friendships with fantastic offers from Domino’s Pizza, with the double duo deal for as little as N4,500. For this price, you and your bestie can enjoy two mouthwatering medium-sized pizzas,” the outlet enthused. While offering something new, delicious, and exciting for friends, Domino presents the new 9ja Peppe Meatball from July 20. “You can order this brand new sumptuous, spicy, meaty, and mouthwatering pizza with a free drink for just N2,500,” it added. For Cold Stone Creamery, it has set aside sweet and zesty super saver’s offers, guaranteed to turn a frown upside-down. “You can have a sweet and zesty July with Cold Stone Creamery’s New Ginger and Lemon deals and enjoy two cups for N1,500 only or a Value Deal of two CYO cups for just N2,000. It expounded: “Other thrilling deals are: every Tuesday, customers can now enjoy a super delivery of buy one get one free offer on love it CYO when you order from the Jumia app.” Describing this as a better way to chillax with friends, the ‘Buy One Get One Free’ on their creamy Rum and Raisin flavor is up for grabs throughout July. Following swiftly, Pinkberry Gourmet Frozen Yoghurt, is reeling a perfect blend of amazing discounts this month. This is in its quest to ensure customers enjoy the Pinkberry side of life. “You can share the delicious Smoothie crush combo with your bestie when you buy two cups of the new smoothie range, you get the third cup absolutely free all for just N2,000”. Pinkberry enthusiasts have swirly treat offer with two medium cups of any delicious flavoured yoghurt for only N2,000. The eatery is also appreciating all its amazing customers with a sliming offer of two small cups of their best selling original flavoured yoghurt for just N1,200.