By Ibrahim Shuaibu The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, has debunked a report that he bought a house for his son in Abuja. Dr Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations to the minister of Justice, in a statement made available to THISDAY in Kano on Saturday, said the attention of the minister had been drawn to a “mischievous, deceitful and perfidious publication by the notorious factory of fake news in Nigeria, the Sahara Reporters, with an intent to spread lies. “It is regrettable that the information communication technology tools have been hijacked by disgruntled elements in spreading fake news and blatant lies. “The report by the media is a clear violation of ethical journalism practices on verification of facts and authentication of claims. It evinces lack of professionalism and exposes rash and reckless presentation of figment of imaginations shrouded with bigotry and bundled with sentiments of unscrupulous questions. “For instance, who is the vendor of the purported house bought for the son of the Minister in Abuja at N300m? Where is the so-called mansion located in Abuja? Where are the title documents?” While refuting the claim, Malami said, “God knows that I did not purchase any house for him in Abuja. Not even a rented house was secured for my son in Abuja, because he has no plan to live in Abuja”. The statement also noted the wedding fatiha of the eldest son of the minister which it said took place at Al-Furqan Mosque along Alu Avenue in Kano on Saturday under strict observance of the protocols and guidelines of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. It said Malami expressed appreciation for the understanding demonstrated due to COVID-19 pandemic which made the wedding fatiha to be low-key. It recalled that the minister communicated in writing notifying friends and colleagues that due to the current situation of COVID-19 he only solicited for their prayers and goodwill, adding, “It is important to note that the wedding fatiha took place in Kano on Saturday 11th July, 2020 in the morning. Any other activity before or after the wedding fatiha is not connected with the marriage and we therefore dissociate ourselves from it in its entirety.” The statement further said: “The allegation of hiring private jets for the marriage was preposterous. It is common knowledge that the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice had neither a father nor mother anywhere in Nigeria to be conveyed to Kano for the wedding. Who, then the Attorney-General is using the chartered flight to convey? Which jets are chartered? Who paid for the charter? Through which means was the money paid? “It is one of such libelous publications of which Sahara reporters is commonly known for targeted at selected few for unsubstantiated fabricated allegations while overlooking more serious reasonable allegations visibly open against its favoured sectional kinsmen.”