Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Zone A, has called on the federal government to reopen schools in earnest. The Secretary General of the zone, Mr. Abdullahi Saleh made the call yesterday in Kano. NANS’ Zone A comprises Kano, Jigawa, Katsina, Sokoto, Zamfara, Kebbi, Niger, Kaduna, Gombe and Bauchi states. According to him, the association had shelved a planned action for security reasons but demands that government should “tell precisely when schools will resume’. They also called on the security agencies to ‘put a stop to the arrest of students’ and ‘come up with a timeline of how to open schools’. According to him, the association will not allow students to be denied access to education. “We shall not allow people with parochial interest to plunge the future of this country into a sorry state by intentionally denying the children of the common man access to education. “The current situation may eventually lead to an increase in the number of out-of-school children in most parts of the country’. He noted that a solution needs to be crafted to mitigate problems that the closure may cause on the students staying home for so long, adding that the situation may lead to the increase in the number of out-of-school children. “We fear that the current situation may eventually lead to an increase in the number of out-of-school children in most parts of the country. “Pupils and students sent back home are already mixing with some people who have not been to school. Some of those they are mixing with are drug addicts and when they mix with such people they can influence the students negatively”. “As a party, we are proud of what we have brought into governance. We are happy that even ordinary Nigerians on the street are happy that the change has affected them positively. “I urge all our party members, especially the Progressive Women in both states, to campaign vigorously for the candidates in all Wards and local government area that in September and October, we will be victorious and our people will continue to enjoy human capital, socio – economic and infrastructural development.”