Chinedu Eze The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has described actions of former Zamfara Governor Abdulaziz Yari as “irresponsible”. Yari was reported to have refused to adhere to safety protocols and procedures put in place at the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport on Saturday. The former governor was said to have described himself as a “VIP” was reported to have forcefully pushed the officer who was trying to disinfect his luggage. FAAN, while condemning Yari’s action, said his behavior was capable of endangering other airport users. The reaction to his conduct was contained in a series of tweets posted yesterday by FAAN on its official twitter handle, @FAAN_Official. The tweet, which was titled Public announcement reads: “The management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) hereby strongly condemns the conduct of the former Governor of Zamfara State, Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari who blatantly violated the public health procedures (COVID19) on travels at the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport on Saturday, July 11, 2020. “He refused to adhere to the protocols and procedures put in place by the federal government through the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on #COVID19 by forcefully pushing away an officer of the environment department when he insisted that his luggage must be disinfected. “The former governor said the officer should have known he is a VIP. This irresponsible act endangers all other airport users, it is unacceptable and as such it has been duly escalated. “FAAN hereby cautions all airport users, especially our esteemed VIPs, to please respect the presidential directive by observing the public health travel protocols put in place to protect all air travelers against infection and the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic.” ITV’s Political Editor, Robert Peston, said he has been told to expect good news on the trial later this week, with results expected in the British medical journal, The Lancet, today. He said: “Apparently, the vaccine is generating the kind of antibody and T-cell (killer cell) response that the researchers would hope to see.” In the early stages, researchers will want to see that the jab is safe for people to take and doesn’t cause serious side effects, and also that it seems to be stimulating the immune system in the right way.”