By Victor Ogunje The Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has assured that he would not treat any party members as an enemy despite the attacks being launched against him by some leaders in the ongoing crisis rocking the State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC). This came as the party’s stakeholders in the state passed a vote of confidence on the governor and party executives from the ward to the state level on account of their impressive performances and strict adherence to the party’s vision. It should be recalled that the former Minister of Works, Senator Dayo Adeyeye; the Special Adviser to the President on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu; the Former Speaker, Ekiti State House of Assembly, Mr. Adewale Omirin and 12 others members of the party last week accused Fayemi of dictatorship and vindictiveness.. A statement jointly signed by the 15 APC chieftains alleged that Fayemi has been dictatorial, sectional and brutish in the running of the party, thereby turning the party organs into instruments of suppression and victimisation. But speaking at an the APC stakeholders’ meeting that was held on Saturday, July 4, 2020, in Ado Ekiti, Fayemi was quoted to have said that his crisis with Adeyeye, Ojudu and others is a family affair. A statement on what transpired at the meeting, which was issued on Sunday by the APC State Publicity Secretary, Mr. Ade Ajayi, quoted Fayemi to have said that “whatever disagreement we have in Ekiti APC is a family affair. I’m not an enemy to anyone and neither is anyone an enemy to me.” Ajayi said that issues affecting the party were deliberated upon before the meeting’s vote of confidence was passed on Governor Fayemi after a review of the many projects carried out by his administration, which include road and water projects, schools’ renovation and sinking of boreholes across schools. Other notable achievements of the governor, according to Ajayi, include the airport project, investments in agriculture and health, social investment, attraction of foreign and domestic investments, making Ekiti proud as the Chairman of Nigeria Governors Forum as well as his quality leadership role at the national level. Ajayi added: “A vote of confidence was also passed on the party executives from the state to ward level for winning all elections conducted so far, including the presidential, national and state assemblies, as well as local government elections. “The national and state assembly members equally expressed their support for the governor and the party executives from state to the ward levels.” He added that part of the resolutions was the directive given to party members to withdraw all court cases instituted against the party in line with President Buhari’s directive.