Sokoto state government will spend over N10 billion on the construction of intra-city flyovers and roads dualization within the state capital this fiscal year. A statement by the Special Adviser Media and Publicity to the Governor, Muhammad Bello, said this was part of the resolutions of the state executive council meeting presided over by Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal on Wednesday. At the close of the meeting the Commissioner for Information, Hon. Isa Bajini Galadanci, and his colleague of the Ministry of Finance, Hon. Abdussamad Dasuki, along with those of Basic Education, Works and Water Resources respectively: Hon. Bello Abubakar Guiwa, Hon. Salihu Maidaji and Hon. Umar Bature, briefed journalists on the outcome. According to Hon. Dasuki, Gov. Tambuwal has directed that all paperwork on the awards of the contracts should be completed within five days after the Wednesday meeting to enable the contractors commence work on time. The governor’s directive, Dasuki said, also covers the contracts on mega hospitals planned for Sokoto State University Teaching Hospital (SOSUTH) and two others which over N10 billion awards the Council approved last week. He said the directive also included modalities for the payment of compensation in all affected sites where the projects would be located. A breakdown of the expenditures on the five approved projects on Wednesday indicate that while the flyovers will gulp about N6.8 billion, thus carrying the lion share, the roads dualization make up the rest of the total sum. The roads earmarked for dualization are those of Waziri Abbas, Maituta and the Illela Terminus roads which will gulp N709 million, N277 million and N2.856 billion respectively. The sum of N3.4 billion apiece are set aside for the construction of the flyovers to be located at Dandima and Rijiyar Doruwa intersections of the state capital. The Council also received and adopted the recommendations of a committee set up by the state government on the inter-ministerial integration of water supply in the state.