By Kasim Sumaina The Victims Support Fund (VSF) Task Force on COVID-19 has handed over medical consumables and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Medical Supplies worth N41,094,078.60 to the Federal Capital Territory Administration at the Abuja Central Medical Stores (ACMS). The VSF Task Force on COVID 19 which was inaugurated by the Chairman of the Fund, Gen TY Danjuma rtd, was assigned to provide palliative measures to vulnerable Nigerians, including institutions and agencies that support the national efforts to fight COVID 19 pandemic. The medical consumables and devices handed over include medicine for primary and secondary medical care. The primary medicines consist of pain medication/analgesics, multivitamins, anti-malarials, and multivitamins. The secondary care medications include anti-diabetes, and anti-hypertension drugs. The medical devices are the electronic sphygmomanometer as well as the glucometer and active test strips. The PPE’s consist of surgical face masks, latex gloves, hand sanitizers, face masks, antiseptic, bleach, soap and toilet cleaner. The Spokesman of the Task Force, Alkasim Abdulkadir, who represented the Chairman, informed that VSF remains committed to support national efforts in the global fight against the Corona Virus pandemic and deploy sensitisation campaigns to advise the populace on the need to adhere to Covid 19 protocols in order to reduce the spread of the virus. Abdulkadir, while speaking in Abuja said, “VSF continues to work to provide sucour to victims of insurgency and armed conflict in Nigeria especially in the areas of livelihood and recovery, education and protection, infrastructural development as well as research and peacebuilding.” Responding, the Acting Head, Administration/Finance, FCTA, Malan Noel Haruna, while receiving the supplies on behalf of the Secretary, Health and Human Services, FCTA, assured that the medical supplies will be disbursed appropriately. He thanked the Chairman, VSF Task Force on COVID-19 and the entire staff and management of the fund for the gesture.