By Alex Enumah The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a suit by a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant, Mr Timi Alaibe, challenging the emergence of Governor Douye Diri as the candidate of the PDP in the November 2019 governorship election in Bayelsa State. The suit was dismissed by Justice Bode Rhodes-Vivour following the dramatic withdrawal by the appellant. Before the withdrawal, the Supreme Court’s five-man panel led by Justice Rhodes-Vivour had questioned the competence of the appeal, insisting that it was a pre-primary election issue, which is an internal affairs of the PDP. The apex court justices drew the attention of the lawyer to the appellant, Mr Ifedayo Adedipe (SAN), to the effect that the grouse of the appellant centred on the process that produced delegates for the primary election and not the primary election itself. Quoting part of the processes filed by Alaibe, the panel held that he never claimed to have won the primary election and as such his matter was a pre-primary election issue that the court cannot delve into. However, spirited efforts by Alaibe’s lawyer to convince the apex court that the issues related to the primary election were rejected by the court, which insisted that it can only adjudicate on a primary election by a contestant that participated in the poll and not in an internal affairs of any political party. At this point, Adedipe, who claimed to have understood and appreciated the hint of the court, announced the withdrawal of the appeal and was subsequently dismissed. Reacting to the judgment, the state Deputy Governor, Senator Lawrence Erhujakpor described the verdict as a triumph for democracy, adding that the judiciary remains the last hope of the common man in the country. “Clearly and transparently, the justices have displayed their uprightness. The judges and the Supreme Court have displayed that indeed it is the last court in the Nigeria. “I want to appreciate them and I believe and pray that God will continue to guide them, use them to do justice to all manners of people,” he said. He appreciated all Bayelsans for their prayers and promised not to fail them.