By Funmi Ogundare The Executive Director, Greenlife Pharmaceuticals Limited, Mr. Ebuka Chukwuka, has expressed his organisation’s readiness to continue to support the annual Rising Stars Writing Competition and Awards (RSWCA), aimed at developing budding writers and help raise more authors like Professor Wole Soyinka and Chinua Achebe. Chukwuka, who made this known recently, during a virtual meeting/unveiling of winners of the 2020 edition of the RSWCA, said the future of the country depends on the quality of education given to children. According to him, “no amount of money invested in education for the children is a waste.” The Head, Human Resources and Public Relations of the organisation, Mrs. Amaka Nwosisi, said as a corporate entity, it would always be the frontrunner in giving back to the society and supporting worthy causes. The RSWCA Project Coordinator, Uche Udoji, who announced the results of the competition with the theme, ‘Freedom’, said 10 winners emerged in the poem and short stories categories with credits given to the writers. In the primary school category and for short story, Onyeke-Atobore Zoe of St. Saviours School, Ikoyi, Lagos, emerged first position, Chikamara Okpala of Divine Offspring International School, Lagos came second, while Demilade Olaere of The Livingsprings Schools, Awoyaya, Lagos came third. In the secondary school category, there were no first and second place winners, but Ugo-Ogoke Chukwukanyima of Marywood Girls College, Ebute Metta, Lagos came third. For poetry, in the primary school category, Morenikejimi Reni Anjorin of St. Saviour’s School Ikoyi, Lagos, emerged first position, Kenechukwu Anthony Azuike of Sunnyfields Primary School, Ikeja came second, while Arifeoluwa Benson of St. Saviour’s School, Ikoyi came third. At the secondary school level, Miss Ikeoluwa Modebelu of Holy Child Girls College, Lagos, was first. Ifeanyi-Obi of Bloombreed Schools, Port Harcourt came second and Idara Enang of Redeemer’s International Secondary School, Lagos came third. Udoji, who thanked Greenlife for its support and participating schools, said “the results have also been widely published on our website.www.thewriterscorner.com.ng, conventional and social media organs. It is the intention of the organisers that the winning entries are compiled and published by The Writers Corner, in the Writers Corner Blog and an anthology publications of poems and short stories with credits given to the writers. “The organizers will have the unrestricted rights to publish competition entries in any format at any time and/or be used as relevant promotional material. We appreciate everyone and every school that participated at this period of uncertainty due to the COVID-19 pandemic.”