A former deputy governor of Ondo State, Otunba Omolade Oluwateru, has rallied support for Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant, Mr. Eyitayo Jegede (SAN), saying he parades the best qualities and deserves to obtain the party’s ticket in Wednesday’s primary election. Oluwateru gave the endorsement Sunday evening in Akure, while hosting Akure South Local Government party delegates, as Jegede rounded off the second leg of his campaign tour of the 18 local government areas. Commending the aspirant for his resilience, Oluwateru, a member of the PDP Board of Trustees, remarked that Jegede could be trusted, having sustained his loyalty to the PDP, despite losing the governorship election way back in 2016. Urging Akure delegates to vote en masse for the aspirant who hails from the area, Oluwateru said, “This is a golden opportunity for you, to tell the entire people of Ondo State that Akure has an exceptional son who can fulfill the yearnings and aspirations of the masses of the state. “We have all been behind Jegede all this while because we can see ahead, that the people of the state stand to gain much in terms of employment generation, social infrastructure, agricultural revolution, solid health services, educational growth, among others.” Oluwateru, a former Nigerian Ambassador to Uganda, enthused at the wide acceptance of Jegede across all ethnic divides, stressing that all the 114 delegates in Akure South had also signed up to a common agreement to vote for him. Complementing the deputy governor, a House of Representatives member representing Akure South/North Constituency, Hon. Adedayo Omolafe, described Jegede as a natural leader, who gives priority to the welfare of his followers. He expressed optimism that Jegede would emerge tops in the primary election, adding that the latter’s re-entry into the governorship race was a great boost to the party. Also, another House of Reps member, representing Irele/Okitipupa federal Constituency, Hon. Ikengboju Gboluga, on the occasion, recalled that he was a beneficiary of the generous disposition of the aspirant, assuring that he would mobilise support for Jegede as well. Responding, Jegede traced his track record in Nigeria’s socio-political affairs, stressing that as a former Commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General in Ondo State, as a member of the state’s Tenders’ Board for six years, and as a former chairman of Conference of Attorneys-General for the 36 states of the federation, he had come with enough experience in public administration. “In all my career, I have never been found wanton and I have overcome greed in any appearance”, he said, adding, “If you cast your vote for me in this primary election, and if I eventually win the governorship race, nobody will be forgotten in terms of spreading the dividends of democracy.”