Emma Okonji and Raheem Akingbolu StarTimes has increases its content offerings, through the addition of 15 channels that will enhance customers’ experience.
This is even as a new blockbuster Hollywood movie channel and two premium sports rights are coming on the platform. The pay-TV entertainment provider said it pioneered and remained the only player in the Nigerian market offering flexible subscription options such as daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly, which fits into the Pay-As-You-Go model, allowing Nigerians to subscribe according to their needs and means. Marketing Manager of StarTimes, Viki Liu, who made the disclosure during a virtual conference meeting with journalists recently, said due to StarTimes’ efforts to make digital TV affordable to all families, the price of pay-TV has been greatly lowered, from average $50 per month to 3 or 5 dollars per month. She noted that the pay-as-you-go options are available for all bouquets, adding, “whether a customer subscribes daily, weekly or monthly to a bouquet, he or she will have access to the same channels and services. The flexible billing systems are reasonable for people who do not spend reasonable time watching television after subscription.” She explained that although the sharp drop in naira has forced the brand to adjust some of its bouquet prices upwards from August 1, subscribers would get more value for what they are paying, without compromising affordability. According to Liu, “Over the last couple of months, StarTimes has been adding new and exciting channels, great local and international channels for the viewing pleasure of our teeming subscribers without an additional charge. These channels, including other existing flagship channels and content, were acquired at a cost which StarTimes has continued to bear to cushion the economic pressure on subscribers. “For sports lovers, StarTimes offers varieties of international football tournaments for the entertainment of our teeming subscribers. Europa League, Bundesliga and Coppa Italia are exclusive on StarTimes. We also air English FA Cup, Copa Del Rey among others. “We also brought back FOX; FOX LIFE; National Geographic; Nat Geo Wild; ESPN; ESPN 2 and BABY TV. We will very soon also be including a new Hollywood blockbuster movie channel on our list of entertainment content.” Speaking about the challenges the company is facing in its quest to provide cable TV entertainment to subscribers, the StarTimes marketing manager said that earlier this year, the Federal Government increased the rate of the Value Added Tax (VAT) from 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent, which she said had effect on its cost but that in consideration of its customers’ plight, StarTimes continued to bear the extra cost.