C huks Okocha in Abuja The corruption survey of the National Bureau for Statistics (NBS) and its impact and trend at the subnational level as analysed by the and the United Nation Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) would feature prominently at today’s meeting of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), which is their 12th teleconference since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic disease. Also, the Representative of the UNODC, Mr. Oliver Stolpe and the Statistician General of the Federation and the Chief Executive of the NBS, Dr. Yemi Kale, would join the governors in the teleconference to shed light on the subject. In addition, the issue of the implementation of the five per cent user’s charge by the Federal Road Maintenance Agency (FERMA), would be discussed during the governors’ conference by the Managing Director and Chief Executive of FERMA, Mr. Nurudeen A. Rafindadi. Moreover, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Mr. Timipriye Sylva, would table before the governors the case of the National Gas Expansion Program (NGEP). The discussions would revolve around “Expanding Domestic Gas Supply and Stimulating Demand in the Country,” soon after the opening remarks by the Chairman of the Forum and Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. John Kayode Fayemi. The Head, Media and Public Affairs, Mr. Abdulrazaque Bello-Barkindo, said the invitation by the Director General of the NGF, Mr. Asishana Bayo Okauru, to the governors listed an update from the Governor of Delta State, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, about his committee’s interface with the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 on how to contain the community spread of the disease. The governors would also discuss the Executive Order 10, 2020 on the Financial Autonomy for the State Legislature and Judiciary among other matters like the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA); a Compendium of State-Owned Moribund Companies and Commercial Entities; the Infrastructure Refund to the remaining Five (5) States, namely Rivers, Bayelsa, Cross River, Ondo and Osun States.