Radisson Hotel Group has announced the appointment of Ramsay Rankoussi and Daniel Trappler as the Head of Development for Africa and Senior Director, Development for Sub-Sahara, respectively. This is in line with the company’s expansion drives and a move to strengthen its commitment in Africa. Ramsay Rankoussi has served with the company for more than six years and presently leads Radisson Hotel Group’s growth in Africa. His appointment reinforces the group’s confidence that Africa continued to be a region of growth. As the Senior Director, Development for Sub-Sahara, Daniel Trappler, brings a unique set of skills to the investment community. The company acknowledges him as one of the few specialists in hotel transactions and capital markets. Chief Development Officer of the company, Elie Younes, said, “Trappler’s strong understanding of the region unlocks access to a network of financial institutions which represents the biggest challenge across the continent, in terms of deal structuring and hotel openings.” Younes added, “Africa has always been at the forefront of our growth journey and we have recently adopted a new tailored strategy across the continent, reflecting the needs of the market and also underlining our ambitions to accelerate our presence in all key cities. “I am very pleased with Ramsay’s new role overseeing our development in Africa. Over the last six years, Ramsay has proven to be a key asset to our development team, and with the appointment of Daniel, we become increasingly relevant to our owners and investment partners. We look forward to developing our presence even further and contributing to the local community through job creation and additional positive knock-on effects of investment.” Also speaking, Rankoussi said, “This is a tremendous opportunity to further accelerate our growth in Africa and I am pleased to be surrounded by the best team. We have ensured a geographical alignment in our resources and optimised our response time with deal experts in every market we cover. “The addition of Daniel to the team unlocks a new horizon where Radisson Hotel Group will be able to further assist our partners in debt and equity raising, but we will also leverage our complete skillset in addressing cross-regional synergies from financial to construction solutions to ensure we always remain relevant to our owners.”