The committee set up to screen governorship aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the forthcoming election in Ondo State, has cleared seven aspirants, including the state’s deputy governor, out of the nine aspirants in the race for the party’s ticket. However, the main opposition party has set up an appeal committee to review the cases of the two disqualified aspirants. The PDP screening committee, headed by a former House of Representatives Speaker, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, cleared the aspirants at the weekend.
Among those cleared is the state’s Deputy Governor, Alhaji Agboola Ajayi, who recently defected to the PDP from APC. THISDAY gathered that besides Ajayi, other aspirants that will participate in the party’s primary are Chief Eddy Olafeso, Chief Olusola Nehemiah Ebiseni, Mr. Eyitayo Jegede, (SAN), Mr. Okunomo Benjamin, Dr. Bode Ayorinde and Senator Kunlere Boluwaje. A source close to the committee, who spoke with THISDAY, gave the names of the disqualified aspirants as Chief Bamidele Akingboye and Mr. Goddey Erewa.
According to the source, Akingboye was disqualified over issues relating to his certificates, while Erewa was disqualified on the ground that he did not register as a voter in Ondo State. It was also learnt that both aspirants have rejected their disqualification and are ready to go on appeal. The National Working Committee (NWC) of the party has, however, constituted an appeal committee to consider appeals from the disqualified aspirants. The committee is headed by Senator Istifanus Dung. Other members are Mr. Dayo Ogungbenro, Chief Austin Maho, Chief Dan Orbih, Mr. G.T. Kayaks, Hon. Theophilus, Mr. Daka Shan, Senator Ibrahim Kazaure, Senator Kola Balogun, Princess Bolanle Ogundiran, Hon. Rima Shawulu, Ms. Hassana Dikko, Mr. Christine Akpan, and Mr. Uzoma Abonye, who will serve as secretary of the committee. According to a statement by the National Organising Secretary of PDP, Col. Austin Akobundu (rtd), the appeal committee will meet today in Abuja to consider the appeals.