A former Nigerian Ambassador to Togo, Dr. Vincent Okobi has passed away. He died at 82 on June 27 after long illness. Okobi’s passage was announced in a statement issued by Mr. Amaechi Michael Okobi on behalf of the family. The statement said: “Our family is deeply saddened to announce the passing of Ambassador Vincent Sunny Okobi, who passed away peacefully surrounded by his family on June 27 after a long illness.” Citing different roles he played globally during his active years, the statement described Okobi as the quintessential gentleman and a diplomat who has left an indelible mark on the world stage. It said: “First as a clerk under then Governor-General of Nigeria Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, before leaving Nigeria for the United States.
“Then as a civil rights activist and President of the African Students’ Union in Washington, D.C. in the 1960s. While serving as Nigerian Ambassador to Togo, he was awarded the Togolese National Award by President Gnassingbe Eyadema. “He was also awarded France’s National Order of Merit by President Jacques Chirac and later the Legion of Honour by President François Mitterrand for his commitment to promoting Franco-Nigerian relations. A proud son of Asaba, Delta State, he was conferred with the Olinzele Title, Owelle Osowa Ahaba by His Royal Majesty The Asagba of Asaba, Professor Chike Edozien. “A lifelong, devout Catholic, Ambassador Okobi was initiated into the 4th Degree of the Order of The Knights of St. Mulumba. “Most of all though, Ambassador Okobi has left his most unforgettable legacy as a devoted husband of 52 years, father of four children and grandfather of 14,” the statement said. According to the statement, Okobi left behind Justice Victoria Okobi (wife), Amaechi Okobi, Yomi & Adaobi Oniwinde, I.K. & Alison Okobi, Patrick & Awele Okigbo, Comfort Odiachi (sister), Maggie Okobi (sister), Patricia Dada Amuzie (sister) and Telema Okobi (brother) In strict adherence to COVID-19 guidelines, the family asked all well wishers “not to plan home visits to the family at this time. Burial plans will be announced shortly. In the meantime, we ask that you keep our family in your prayers.”