By Emma Okonji 21st Century Technologies Limited, an ICT firm in Africa has launched Konet, a wholly indigenous business collaboration tool that will help SMEs and large scale enterprises adapt to the new world of work due to the COVID-19. Konet is a technology suite that empowers individuals, SMEs, startups and businesses to become more productive online. Its features include voice, video, live chat, file sharing with brand customisation. Citing a recent news report, which stated that the web virtual conferencing market size is $12.58 billion in 2020 and it is estimated to reach $19.02 billion by 2025, at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 8.6 per cent, the technology company said the financial figure called for the need for indigenous collaborative tool that would help Nigerians and the entire world to address the adverse effects of COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking during a recent virtual press conference, the Founder and CEO of 21st Century Technologies Limited, Mr. Wale Ajisebutu said the platform was carefully designed to cater for the needs of SME and businesses as they face the new normal occasioned by the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. Commenting on what the company intends to achieve with the service, Ajisebutu said: “Our plan is to build an ecosystem to enable collaboration, most secure collaboration environment in businesses, add efficiencies to workflows and allow organisations make decisions quickly with customers, vendors and partners”. He emphasised that “Konet is a very secured platform with enterprise grade security features and compliance standards to prevent data loss.” According to him, “Our ISO certifications make us top of the line globally however we’ve ensured that our services remain easily deployed and used by businesses. “This will help Nigeria as a country to rebuild the damaged economy being caused by COVID-19 pandemic.” Konet Team Lead, Ibukun Femi-Ajala, in his presentation, further stated that the service was targeted at Corporates, Transportation, Retail, Hospitality, Educational Institutions, Government and individuals. With Konet’s seamless connectivity, brainstorming sessions with your teammates will be more productive. According to Femi-Ajala, “Konet is more than just a collaboration tool and will become a technology marketplace. We have decided to launch first and then introduce other key features and products in batches. Unquestionably, you will see some features of Konet in other existing products which have been successful.”