Dike Onwuamaeze The Cabinet office of the United Kingdom has hailed a Nigerian information technology consultant, Victor Osagie, for his ingenuity in the mass production of ventilators to boost the fight against the corona virus pandemic. In a commendation letter from the cabinet office of the UK and jointly endorsed by all partners including Ford and Airbus, Osagie was commended for his role in the just concluded ventilator challenge project which was an initiative of the cabinet office. “Thank you for your invaluable contribution to our ventilator challenge UK team. As we battled together to save lives threatened by Covid-19 your energy, ingenuity and camaraderie made a tremendous difference. You are a shining example of the best UK has to offer,” it read. Osagie‘s team delivered the quality control system that rapidly converted disused warehouses into assembly lines. His team converted Ford Motors vehicle production lines and Airbus Aircraft production lines into ventilator production lines. They produced over 14,000 ventilators within a 90-day period. This boosted the NHS ventilator capacity from less than 9000 pre COVID19 era to the over 25000 capacity in July 2020. British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, according to a statement, noted that the ventilator challenge has proven how much Britain can achieved when confronted with difficult problems. “Bringing together the best minds in manufacturing, innovation and design was a right decision. Thanks to your effort, everyone who needs a ventilator had access to one. And the NHS has the vital machines needed to continue providing lifesaving support against the deadly virus,” he added. On his part, health and social care secretary, Matt Hancook said: “We protected the NHS during this global pandemic. The impact of COVID – 19 showed the best and the brightest stepping forward to serve their country. The response the government received to this challenge was astonishing.” In his comment, Osagie advised the Nigerian government to redirect educational resources to producing medical personnel in doctors and nurses, information technology consultants that can be exported all over the world to earn foreign exchange and also serve as a cheap source of further enhancing the skills of such personnel who can subsequently return home to provide world class services.