Okon Bassey in Uyo Two persons have been reportedly killed and one kidnapped in a renewed cult clash between Debam and Iceland confraternities in Oruk Anam Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. The cult clash occurred in Inen Ikot Eteye and Ikot Inyang villages of Inen community in the state. THISDAY checks revealed that the attack, which happened about 7p.m. last Sunday, claimed the life of one Ubong Okon Udo Ibanga, who operated a drinking joint opposite the village primary school in the area. An eyewitness, Nse Okon Udo, said the second victim who lived near the community market square popularly known as Urua Idung Okuwa, was hacked by the same squad that killed the drinking joint operator, and escaped with his corpse. Nse, who did not disclose the name of the second victim, explained that they died on the spot after several gunshots at their heads and bellies, as they were left in the pool of their blood. He said the same gang escaped to the neighboring village in Ikot Inyang where one welder was kidnapped. Another eyewitness, who pleaded anonymity, said the community was in panic by sporadic gunshots that caused residents to run away from their homes for safety. “As I speak with you now, I ran away from my house since yesterday to hide in another village. When we heard the shootings, we knew that the ‘boys’ were here again. “Before we knew it, two young men were killed. I packed a few things like a pregnant woman carrying her emergency bag with my family and ran away to this place now. “I don’t know when I would return home. Our village is not safe for everybody. The cultists always attack rival group members, but now they operate house to house every night, stealing, killing and kidnapping people. “The one they kidnapped in another village is a welder, who was doing well in his trade, but was later broke and returned home. We don’t know why they kidnapped him,” he narrated. According to him, since the killing of the chief security officer of the road construction company in the area last month, the area is not secure. “There is shooting here every night and we don’t know what to do again. We live in fear. By 6p.m., anybody is seen outside, Please tell government to help us,” he stated. Meanwhile, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), CSP Nnudam Frederick, said the matter has not been reported. He said the Divisional Police Officers (DPO) of OrukAnam LGA police state, where the incident occurred, has not reported the incident. “As a matter of fact, I had a meeting with all the DPOs from the 31 council areas of the state this morning, but the DPO of OrukAnam never briefed me on the incident” Frederick said.