Mary Nnah Against the backdrop of the disruptions which the COVID-19 global pandemic has caused in the marketplace across the world, Nigeria inclusive, an industry leader and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Lagos, Nigeria based Route712 Experiential Agency, David Idahoise, has charged operators of the sector, in particular, and Nigerian business organizations to re-invent the wheels, deliver exceptional services and customer experiences to stay relevant. According to him, “every forward looking organisation must reinvent their strategy to ensure they deliver exceptional services and customer experience in this present day market reality if they want to be relevant and remain in business”. This, he said, would make the agencies and the (product and corporate) brands that they work for to deepen their engagement and loyalty with customers. Citing his agency as an example, Idahoise disclosed that the company had sustain its culture of attracting to itself some of the brightest minds in Nigeria’s brand activation and marketing industry to keep it at the top of the experiential marketing space. In his words, “With its dictum, ‘Everything you can imagine is real’, Route 712 is combining imaginativeness with innovativeness to distinguish itself in the Nigerian experiential marketing ecosystem while impacting on the sector’s generation next, positively”. Quite notably, Route 712 scored another first when during this pandemic period it successfully activated the first ever experiential out-of-home activation which caught the appeal of many industry players. It was at the launch of Cowbell Evaporated milk brand which took place recently. The agency combined leveraged a combination of out-of-home technology with digital interactions to drive massive engagements with consumers across the length and breadth of Nigeria. Expectedly, Route 712 was loudly applauded across the industry for the feat. It is on record that helmsman founded the agency 10 years ago; and within those years the agency has run several record breaking campaigns. These include MOUKA Flora & Legend Mattress Brand Unveiling; DIAGEO McDowell Football Frendzy Activation; McDowell platinum whisky launch; ONGA Foodies Hangout Activations; ONGA Next Top Chef Campus activation; COWBELL Coffee Campus Revelation; COWBELL Choco NYSC Volleyball Activation; COWBELL Milk Roadshows &GSM Consumer Experience; COWBELL Milk Schools Activation; COWBELL Evaporated Milk Activation; KASAPREKO Kalahari And Carnival Strawberry Brands Activation; LOYA Milk Brand Activation; FERRERO Tic-Tac Shake & Share Activation; and Reckitt Benckiser Door to Door activations, just to mention a few.