By Emma Okonji The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, recently in Abuja, unveiled six Information and Communications Technology (ICT) projects. He assured Nigerians that the federal government projects were designed to drive the country’s digital economy initiative. The six projects included the Kaduna Emergency Communication Centre (ECC) built by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), and five other Information Technology (IT) projects built by other agencies under the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy. The ECC project, which will make it possible for people of Kaduna and its environs to dial 112 Emergency Number to get help during emergencies from appropriate emergency response agencies, was aimed at supporting the Federal Government agenda of enhancing security of lives and property in the country. NCC had built ECC in each of the 36 states of the federation and the FCT. Nineteen of the ECC have been activated while efforts are ongoing to extend it to other states. The other five IT projects launched by Pantami, were the Tertiary Institution Knowledge Centre (TIKC) in Enugu State Polytechnic, Iwollo executed by the Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF) of NCC; the opening of Nigeria Communication Satellite (NIGCOMSAT)’s Northwest Regional Office in Kaduna; the IT Community Centre in Katsina; and two IT Hubs, one each in Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria main campus, Kaduna and University of Lagos. The IT Community Centre in Katsina and the two IT Hubs in Kaduna and Lagos, were built by the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA). Speaking during the virtual commissioning of the projects, which took place at the NCC’s Communications and Digital Economy Complex, Mbora District, Abuja and attended by all heads of agencies under the ministry, Pantami said the projects were all connected to the country’s digital economy drive, as contained in the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) unveiled by the President in November last year. According to him, “these projects are connected to some of the pillars of the NDEPS, especially with respect to developmental regulation, digital literacy and skills, solid infrastructure, among others.” He urged Nigerians who are the ultimate beneficiaries of the projects to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the projects.