By Victor Ogunje The Ekiti State Government has sealed off a private school, Victory College in Ilawe Ekiti, Ekiti South West Local Government Area of Ekiti State, and ordered the arrest of the proprietor for allegedly violating COVID-19 protocols. The proprietor was alleged to be organising extra mural class for selected students despite the directive that all schools in the state should remain closed in view of the spreading COVID-19 pandemic. However, the proprietor had reportedly absconded after violating the directive of the state government on school closure. The state Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mr. Foluso Daramola, last Friday shut the school premises and ordered the arrest of the proprietor. In a statement issued by the Assistant Director (Information) of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Kunle Adeniyi, yesterday, Daramola said the state government gave the orders for the closure of the school and arrest of the proprietor after receiving the interim report from officials of the ministry, who investigated the activities of the private school. The statement read: “Ekiti State Government has ordered the immediate sealing off of the premises of Victory College in Ilawe Ekiti for violating the directives of government on the closure of schools as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic currently ravaging most parts of the globe. ”According to the commissioner, the proprietor of the private school, who is now at large, was discovered to be organising extra moral classes for students and pupils, in total violation of the subsisting government directives on the closure of schools in the state.” While noting that the security agents were already on the trail of the proprietor, Daramola disclosed that the proprietor would face the wrath of the law for violating the COVID-19 protocols in the state, whenever he is apprehended.” Adeniyi, therefore, urged members of the public to give useful information about residents flouting government’s directives, adding that the state Governor, Kayode Fayemi-led administration places great importance on the health of the public.