By Segun Awofadeji Following the communal clash between Fulani herders and Fulani farmers in Zadawa village in Misau Local Government Area of Bauchi State that claimed nine lives leaving many people injured, Governor Bala Mohammed has suspended the Emir of Misau, Alhaji Ahmed Suleiman, indefinitely. THISDAY had earlier reported the suspension of Misau LG Caretaker chairman, his deputy and the secretary of the council for their failure to avert the clash, and the appointment of Alhaji Isah Kufai as Sole Administrator of the Local Government Area. Also suspended alongside the emir were the District Head of Chiroma and the Village head of Zadawa in Hardawa District as well as other traditional rulers in the affected areas pending the outcome of an administrative investigation on the remote and immediate causes of the clash. For the period they are to be suspended, none of them is allowed to travel out of Misau and they must cooperate with the investigative panel in carrying out its official function. Governor Bala Mohammed, who announced the suspension Friday at the Council Chambers of the Government House, Bauchi during the inauguration of the 13-man administrative panel of investigation declared that information at the disposal of government implicated the traditional institution in the area for negligence which led to the needless clash. Governor Mohammed who could not hide his anger declared that anyone found culpable in the clash, no matter how highly placed in the society, will be dealt with in accordance with the laws of the land because the clash was avoidable. The governor frowned at the situation whereby forest reserve earmarked for grazing and pastoral purposes was hijacked and encroached by greedy people causing the needless clash that led to loss of innocent lives. He lamented that activities of some selfish people had continued to encroach on grazing reserves, thereby rendering the Fulani herders unstable and forcing them to become violent, engage in kidnapping, armed robbery and other crimes considering the fact that they are left with nothing to rely on for survival. He directed the Panel to go about its assignment without fear or favour and submit its reports in the next three weeks to enable government to act accordingly saying that the steps taken were in line with all relevant laws in the state and country. “Following the receipt of additional petitions that we have at our disposal, we have decided to suspend the relevant traditional institutions in the area so that they will not interfere in the work of the committee. “The traditional rulers are his royal highness the emir of Misau, the district head of Ciroma, the village head of Zadawa. These traditional rulers are hereby suspended. They will remain in Misau, they are not allowed to go anywhere and they are to submit themselves to the administrative committee of inquiry”, he stated. The governor said the investigative panel would be headed by retired Air Commodore Tijjani Baba Gamawa with representatives of the commissioner of police, director SSS civil defence and attorney general of the state, chairman state house of assembly committee on security, chairman house committee on local government, SSA security and commissioner for local governments. He charged them to gather important information and submit a report within three weeks on the matter assuring that anyone found to be directly or indirectly involved would be dealt with. In his brief remarks, Chairman of the Panel, Air Commodore Tijjani Baba Gamawa, declared that the panel will do its assignment with diligence and will not spare anyone found implicated in the happenings before and during the clash. Gamawa in his remarks wondered why a few people will in the pursuit of their selfish interest expose other innocent people to danger leading to loss of lives.