Chuks Okocha in Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) National Campaign Council for the Edo State’s governorship election has announced that the party is confident of electoral victory for its candidate and the incumbent State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki. A public statement that was issued by the campaign council sad that the Edo electorates are desirous to consolidate their democratic gains by voting massively for Obaseki. According to the statement, “this resolve was announced shortly after the inaugural meeting of the council that was held behind closed doors in Port Harcourt,” which was presided by the Chairman of the National Campaign Council, Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike. Other attendees of the meeting include the Governors of Adamawa State, Mr. Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, his Oyo State counterpart, Mr. Seyi Mankinde and other members of the campaign council as well as all the chairmen and secretaries of all the sub-committees for Edo 2020. Fintiri, who briefed newsmen, said the meeting adopted the best strategies to retain what rightly belonged to the PDP. Fintiri, who is also the deputy chairman of the campaign council, said they would leave no stone unturned in working with Edo people to deepen democracy. “The election is already on the table for the PDP. We have a sellable candidate, who is Governor Godwin Obaseki. Nigerians are moving forward with democracy and we have to deepen it together. “Technically, Edo is a PDP state because in the last election of 2019, we actually won all the elections. So, it is not coming as a surprise that Governor Obaseki has to shift his ground from APC to join us. “Now, we are putting all the forces together, and there is nothing that’s left behind. So, Edo is completely a PDP state and we are going in there to win the election,” he said. Similarly, the Chairman of the Publicity Committee, Mr. Raymond Dokpesi, said the Edo people are convinced that Obaseki is the best candidate in the governorship race. Dokpesi explained that the national campaign council has given the state campaign council all the needed support that would ensure total victory for the PDP. He said: “Those of us from Edo State are very clear in our minds that our candidate, Governor Obaseki, is definitely the best candidate that can deliver and sustain the PDP ticket and also take the flag of the party to Osadebe House. “For the South-South, it is a great challenge and honour to ensure that the six states in the zone belong to PDP. So, every support has been pledged by the leadership of the party, the governors, members of the party’s Board of Trustees and the national working committee. They are committed to ensuring that the flag of PDP will continue to fly in Government House,” he said.