By Adedayo Akinwale and Udora Orizu The House of Representatives’ Committee on Diaspora Affairs, yesterday called for effective partnership of all tiers of governments, especially wives of state governors and other relevant stakeholders to enhance Nigeria’s fight against human trafficking. The Chairman of the Committee, Hon. Tolulope Akande-Sadipe, made this known during an interview with journalists in Abuja, as part of activities marking the 2020 World Day Against Trafficking Persons. Sadipe expressed worry over the high-level of trafficking, saying that it is another form of violence against women. She revealed that her recent meeting with the wife of Ogun State Governor, Mrs. Bamidele Abiodun, which yielded positive enthusiasm shows that there could be fruitful collaborations with wives of governors to bring the evil scourge to an end. She said, ‘’The best way to eradicate this evil among us is to work in unison. Wives of governors should use their offices to advocate against this act. The trafficking agents and their collaborators are not more powerful than those who mean well for the people of this Nation.’’ ‘’This action will ensure that we build awareness in our various states and discourage and educate parents and our girls on the risk of foreign domestic servitude and the lies of agents who end up trafficking them into dangerous situations. We would ensure that the collaboration focuses on rehabilitation, engaging effective sensitisation, workshops and seminars across communities, schools, churches, mosques markets, and other public places, to the remotest parts of our nation.’’ The lawmaker also thanked the Nigerian Ambassador to Lebanon, Ambassador Goni Modu Zanna Bura, who recently came to the aid of 30 Nigerian girls in Lebanon, who were forcefully ejected by their landlord. ‘’I spoke to the Nigerian Ambassador in Lebanon yesterday and his response was inspiring as he had put in place some emergency palliatives for the girls in Lebanon. We also want to encourage Federal Min of Women Affairs, Ministries of Women Affairs in each state, local government authorities and relevant government agencies and other stakeholders to partner with, so that this trafficking menace would be a thing of the past,’’ she added