By Deji Elumoye The Senate has berated one of its members, Senator Chukwuka Utasi, for bringing to plenary local issues involving the Chairman of Innoson Motors, Chief Innocent Chukwuma. Senator Utazi had during Senate plenary, raised a point of order to draw attention of his colleagues to alleged disparaging comments made by some Nigerians against the chief executive of Innoson Motors. The Senator who came under order 43 of the Senate standing rule for self explanation on alleged orchestrated attempts by some Nigerians to run down the boss of the indigenous motor assembly plant. He said “it was highly disturbing and worrisome that such plots are coming from people within the same geo-political zone with the industrial giant “. According to him, “Chief Innocent Chukwuma had done more than enough in getting the country industrialised as far as automobile sector is concerned than for some people to be ganging up against him and which must be condemned by the Senate”. Hardly had Senator Utazi concluded his submissions that some other Senators from the South East geo political zone became agitated and started murmuring wondering why such a local issue should be brought to the floor of the Senate. The underground noise of the worried South East Senators, made the President of the Senate, Dr Ahmad Lawan, to direct Utazi to end his submission while describing the matter as controversial. His words: “Please Distinguished Senator Utazi, rest your case on this motion which had already stirred controversy because this chamber should not be reduced to this type of discussion”. Despite Lawan’s intervention, the background noise the motion generated hightened with voice of Senator Ifeanyi Ubah sounding louder than those of others. Senator Ubah who was later excused into the tea room by some other Senators in a bid to quell the stormy session declared that nobody from his constituency was against Innoson Motors. He wondered why a Senator from Enugu State took it upon himself to mislead the Senate on non existing attacks on an illustrious son from Anambra State. Senator Ubah after plenary addressed newsmen with a prepared press statement titled: ” Ifeanyi Ubah: The Biggest Patronizer of Innoson Vehicles in South East”.
The statement reads in part : “My attention has been unavoidably drawn to a grossly misleading and fictitious narrative credited to certain faceless, pseudo media elements who in the figment of their imaginations claim that I rejected patronage of lnnoson vehicles in a Senate committee meeting. “Ordinarily, a lot of people believe that there is no good reason to personally respond to such a laughable and poorly concocted lie. But the truth is that allowing such a narrative to thrive unaddressed will be a big disservice to my supporters and the reading public. In this regard, to put issues in clearer perspective for the benefit of all well intended Individuals that abhor deliberate distortion of facts. “Let me say without minclng words that In the entire Southeast, I am the only individual with the largest unlts of Innoson vehlcles In hIs fleet. From the onset till date, I have maintalned a very brotherly and cordial relatlonship with Chief (Dr.) Innocent Chukwuma; Chairman of Innoson Group whom I have always patronized and been at the forefront of promoting his brand. “Therefore, I advise those trying to fan the embers of discord between two brothers to desist from such as It Is a failed ploy that is obviously dead on arrival. Another glaring fact that further exposes the hollowness of this poorly scripted propaganda is the fact that the Nigerian Senate already gave out official cars to Senators since last year. “It is imperative to also note that I am not a member of the Senate Appropriation committee, neither am I a member of the Senate Services Committee; therefore, I have never been in any committee meeting to discuss the official cars to be procured and distributed to Senators. “Ordinarily, it is not in my character to bring my investments and patronage dealings with brands to the public domain, but for the purpose of clarity; I have decided to set the records straight with these ba refaced facts and figures. “To this end, I wish to appeal to the general public to kindly disregard this misleading report and always endeavor to reach out to my media office to ascertain the authenticity of such stories in future instances. I also wish to reaffirm my utmost commitment to promoting the Igbo economy and our “think home” philosophy”, Senator Ubah further said.