* Accuses FG of failing to secure citizens’ lives By Adedayo Akinwale The Kaduna State Caucus in the House of Representatives has decried the persistent and gruesome killings of natives, residents and citizens of southern Kaduna, saying the inability of any government to secure the lives and property of its citizens implies failure of government. Addressing journalists on Wednesday on behalf of the caucus, the lawmaker representing Kaura Federal Constituency, Hon. Gideon Gwani, said the caucus was compelled to address the press following the inhuman killings and kidnappings of the people of the region. Gwani said it was no longer news that the people of southern Kaduna have become prey in their fatherland and have consistently been invaded, slaughtered in cold blood, raped, killed and their property destroyed and pillaged in public glare, with little success in investigating and apprehending the perpetrators of the said attacks. He stated: “As representatives of the people, we have identified herdsmen and farmer clashes, forceful land grabbing by non-natives of southern Kaduna, reprisals, banditry and criminality as some of the major causes of the killings and hostilities in southern Kaduna. “These problems can only be solved if the rule of law is allowed to take its full course. Rule of law entails adherence to the principles of supremacy of the law over all citizens and subjects in Nigeria, equality of all citizens and subjects before the law.” The caucus stressed that the 1999 Constitution as amended is premised on the principles of freedom, equality and justice, while Section 14(2)(b) provides that the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government and Section 17(2)(b) provides that in furtherance of the social order, the sanctity and dignity of the human person shall be protected and preserved by government. The caucus added that Section 17(3)(c) guarantees the health, safety and welfare of all persons. It stated: “Thus, the primary objective of any government in Nigeria is to preserve the life and property of its citizenry, no matter their ethnic, religious or ideological differences. The inability of any government to secure the lives and property of its citizens or ensure their welfare implies failure of government.” The caucus pointed out that under the laws of the nation and indeed of all civilized nations, extra-judicial killings on any ground whatsoever is not just abominable, evil, unconstitutional, inhuman and but a heinous crime. It stressed that the killings of the people of southern Kaduna or anybody at all in Nigeria is highly condemnable and must be brought to an end. The caucus said while it notes that these attacks are deeply rooted and multifaceted in nature, the failure to investigate, arrest and prosecute the perpetrators has continued to embolden the attackers. The caucus noted that in these difficult times, statements by people in authority should serve to heal and unite the people, rather than inflaming passion and justifying the heinous acts. The caucus therefore condemned the armed attacks and killings of the people of southern Kaduna by the armed militia groups or the justification of any attacks on our people or any reprisal. It called on the federal as well as the state governments to make efforts to stem this ugly tide and equally called for the arrest, investigation, prosecution and conviction where necessary of these attackers so that they can desist from unleashing mayhem on the people of southern Kaduna.