Ernest Chinwo in Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has called on the Inter Party Advisory Council of Nigeria (IPAC) not to be antagonistic to the government but to assist in ensuring good governance irrespective of the political party in power. This is as he said his administration would execute development projects in every local government area of the state to improve the socioeconomic life of the people. He stated this yesterday when the leadership of IPAC paid him a courtesy visit at the Government House in Port Harcourt. Wike told the leadership of IPAC to put party politics aside and contribute their quota with useful suggestions that would enable him provide good governance to the Rivers people. According to the governor, “The whole essence of IPAC is not to be antagonistic to the government; it is about governance irrespective of political party. “When elections are over, various parties will be more concerned on how the government is serving and contributing their quota.” He also urged politicians not to politicise COVID-19, but should work in concert with the government to reduce the spread of the pandemic. Wike also expressed his commitment to the development of all parts of the state, stating that it is in keeping with the promise made to the people to serve them efficiently and leave the state better than he met it. “There is no local government area that would say it has not felt the presence of this administration. I challenge anybody to say we are not doing anything,” he said. Leader of the delegation and Chairman of IPAC, Desmond Akawor, said the group is satisfied with the quality leadership provided by Wike and the developmental projects within the state capital that they inspected at the weekend. Akawor noted that the flyover projects, Mother and Child Hospital, Judges’ Quarters and the Real Madrid Football Academy are projects that would stand the test of time. He assured the governor that IPAC would collaborate with his administration to give the state qualitative leadership.