Deji Elumoye in Abuja The Senate yesterday advised the federal government to mandate the security agencies to halt further killings of residents of Kaduna South senatorial district. The upper chamber also referred the recent nominations of federal board members by President Muhammadu Buhari to relevant committees with a mandate to report back to plenary within two weeks. President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, said the National Assembly would engage security agencies in the country with a view to up-scaling operations in hot spots to avert the killings of residents of Kaduna South senatorial district. Lawan, who gave the assurance while responding to a point of order raised by Senator Danjuma La’ah, expressed the willingness of the National Assembly to engage security agencies with a view to up-scaling operations around areas prone to attacks in Kaduna South. “I will suggest that we talk to the security agencies to upscale their activities around those hot spots in Kaduna, and this is something that we owe the Nigerian people,” Lawan said. Senator La’ah, had while coming under order 43 of the Senate Standing Rules, lamented the incessant killings of his people in Kaduna South by suspected bandits. He said: “I wish to bring a request before this Senate that there is incessant killings in Kaduna South, which I’m seeking the help of the Senate to send the military and police to help us overcome the situation in Southern Kaduna. “It has become a very serious matter that many people are being killed. The situation is very embarrassing and I’m pleading with the National Assembly to request the federal government to send the police and armed men to protect the lives of my people and their property. “It is unbecoming, as this situation has been on for many years, and now, it has got to this point even though I’ve been complaining,” the senator said. Meanwhile, the Senate yesterday referred President Muhammadu Buhari’s request for the confirmation of Mr. John U. Usanga (Akwa Ibom) and Air Commodore Peter Gana (rtd) (Niger) as non-career ambassadors to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for screening. Also referred was the nomination of Prof. Umar Danbatta for re-appointment as Executive Vice Chairman of the board of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to the Senate Committee on Communications. The confirmation request of Ben Umeano (Anambra-Southeast); Hon. Ehiozuwa Agbonayinma (Edo-South south); and Olayinka Balogun (Ogun-Southwest) as members of the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB), was also referred to the Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions. The committees are all expected to turn in their reports in two weeks.