A selfless fashion and logistics entrepreneur, Ololade Akogun, is set to expand her logistic business, Fad Mail Limited, to Abuja and across several cities in the country. Fad Mail Limited came on the quest to design and execute innovative cost effective solutions to even the most complex global logistics challenges, with an e-commerce delivery services created to empower businesses. On how she started her Ololade Akogun expounds, “As an entrepreneur par excellence, in the course of building businesses, I found out how much people need a good logistics company to run their business effectively.” “So, I decided to start a logistics company for my brand and I realised there are so many brands out there who need Fads.” According to the graduate of Economics, Fads Mail Limited is a company that concentrates on providing high quality logistics services. The company has a topnotch corporate delivery partnership and also e-commerce logistics specialist, connecting sellers to buyers across the globe. She expressed further: “The company has a strong logistics presence across Nigeria with a domestic courier service for delivery of documents and merchandise.” Akogun, who doubles as a fashion enthusiast and logipreneur, enthused that the company started from the scratch and has its head office on Allen Avenue in Lagos with its Abuja office to be launched soon. “We have started considering Ibadan and Ilorin market. The reason for our expanding is to bridge the gap between e-commerce vendors and customers that need to receive their online purchases at their doorstep. Fads Mail saw this gap and is taking advantage of it,” she noted. Today, she is described as a growling business tycoon who bubbles with innovative ideas, independence, decisiveness and a force to reckon with. With her game plan already making waves, she says, “I see my business growing with outlets all over the world through partnerships or mergers. Acquisition of technology to bridge the gap between us and our customers. We are also hoping to place Nigeria on the world map through our first class service delivery.”