Dike Onwuamaeze The newly elected President of Media Independent Practitioners of Nigeria (MIPAN), Mr. Olufemi Adelusi, has stated that he will utilise his tenure to promote media advertising, motivate performance and facilitate a conducive environment for the advertising industry in Nigeria to thrive and grow to a new level. Adelusi, who is also the Chief Executive Officer of the Brand Eye Limited, made this statement recently, when he gave his acceptance speech as the new president of the association during the 2020 Annual General Meeting of MIPAN. He said he would accomplish the above objectives by paying close attention to the pursuit of disciplined professional practice with a view to offering quantifiable value to the industry. He also stated that MIPAN, under his leadership, would encourage the entrenchment of merit based reward systems in the media advertising in order to sustain continuous improvement in the industry. The newly elected president encouraged members of the association not to be discouraged by the current harsh economic environment that was occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic disease that has disrupted the way we live and enthroned a new normal. “We, therefore, must face the challenges and opportunities of a rapidly changing consumers’ and marketing landscape by finding new insights and pivot continuously to leverage and new opportunities
“As a nation we must face these changes boldly and creatively leveraging our intellection capital, creativity, youthful population, technology adoption, resilience, hard work and can-do-spirit as we know, ‘Naija no dey carry last,” Adelusi said. He said his vision for MIPAN is summarised in the short acronym ‘THINC,’ which stands for technology, human capital development, industry thought leadership, inclusiveness for effective collaboration and commercial stability for media ecosystem. The new MIPAN President said that the time has come for the industry to apply technology in its audience measurement and encourage human capital development in the digital and marketing communications industry through training and webinars seminars. He challenged members of the association to “actively contribute to the building of a knowledge economy that help to shape policies, strategies and regulations and to break all barriers, both real and imagined that has limited optimal exploitation of opportunities and resources available to the industry. “We must reach out to the digital agencies to join us in building a robust association and actively contribute to the building of a knowledge economy that help to shape policies, strategies and regulations.” Adelusi also used the occasion to thank the outgoing President of MIPAN, Dr. Ken Onyeali Ikpe and his team “for their service to our dear association. Thank you for your great contributions.” Ikpe, who presented the MIPAN’s 2020 AGM’s President’s Report, said that although the association has come a long way and made some giant strides, there is still much to be done. “I am, therefore, very confident that the future will is bright for the association and I know that those who will be voted into office today will definitely move MIPAN even farther to the Promised Land,” he said. Members of the newly elected executive for MIPAN include Vice President, Mr.Dozie Okafor; Executive Secretary, Mr. Eki Adzufeh; Assistant Secretary, Ms. Yetunde Adegbite; Financial Secretary, Mr. Samson Oyebami; Publicity Secretary, Mr. Henry Onaniwu and Assistant Publicity Secretary, Ms. Akpan-Ekpo Enoch.