Leading electronics company, Samsung, has said the Galaxy A71 and A51 have shown an exceptional performance since the launch of the devices both globally and in Nigeria. According to the company, this is largely due to the presence of features similar to the flagship devices – Note and S-Series; one of which is the unique Quad Camera set up. Highlighting the Camera Experience of the phones, Samsung said: “The 64MP Main camera of the A71 is top notch, works alongside 3 other cameras to provide clear and detailed pictures.” “The struggle of trying to get everyone into one single picture or rushing to find a neighboring photographer just to get the perfect and all inclusive picture has become history. The 123 degree Ultra wide angle camera of these devices gets everyone and the surroundings into one single clear shot. “The macro and live focus cameras of the A71 delivers an exceptional close up and crystal clear image capturing every last detail. This presents a huge opportunity to online business traders with the need to provide close up product images to potential consumers for purchase consideration. “The Quad Camera intelligently detects blinks, blurs, smudged lenses and excessive backlighting, notifies the users who can then adjust and reshoot. Smart right? “These cameras definitely deliver Crisp, Sharp, Clear and beautifully colored pictures with many Flagship modes and additions. According to the HOD Information Technology and Mobile, Samsung Nigeria, Adetunji Taiwo, “the feedback from the first half was very impressive and we continue to look forward to an amazing consumer experience for as many individuals who revel in exceptional features at great value.” The company also highlighted some testimonies from consumers and tech authorities. “The Samsung Galaxy A71 is one of the most interesting devices I’ve had,” said Fisayo Fosudo. “The Samsung Galaxy A71 provides everything necessary; with a Big Screen, Good cameras and Long battery life while being slick and affordable. You really cannot beat that,” said Olawale Adeyina of Tech City. Quoting 3G.co.uk, it said ‘The Galaxy A51 impresses in almost every way”- “If you’re after a smartphone with a big screen, big battery and plenty of photography features, but don’t want to break the bank, the Samsung Galaxy A51 could well be the phone for you.” Samsung Galaxy A51”, TechRadar said.