By Kingsley Nwezeh As an intervention plan designed to cushion the effect of job losses occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, a group, the African Centre for Global Entrepreneural Leadership (ACGEL) yesterday outlined plans to create 60,000 jobs for Nigerians. The group is partnering the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), Keystone Bank, Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) among others to deliver the jobs. Speaking at a press briefing in Abuja, Founder and Board Chairman of the group, Pastor Greatness Oladapo, said the move by the organisation was informed by the alarming rate of job losses triggered by the pandemic. He said the decision of the organisation to create jobs for Nigerians was anchored on the outlook of employment situation in Africa in general and Nigeria in particular. He said research figures showed that 19 million Africans would be unemployed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic while 20 million Nigerians were presently unemployed. Oladapo, who is also the presiding pastor of the Lost Hope Regainer International Ministry, said the jobs would be generated through an online registration platform, www.legs.africa where the details of the registration and voting process could be ascertained. To assure participants of the credibility of process, he said the organisation would write the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to monitor the project. “This generation has a problem of unemployment today. We need to do something about it. The project seeks to involve all Nigerian s to generate 60,000 jobs,” he said. Giving more details, he said: “Our first target is to receive entries (only one entry per applicant) in applications from intending and existing job creators in the following clustered areas notably fashion, agriculture, technology, housing, energy, education, motion pictures, sports within 60 days which is free online @ www.legs.africa. “People with keen mind-sight and ideas to create jobs for themselves known as entrepreneurs and for others other than themselves known as business owners should please apply.”