By Emmanuel Ugwu Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, yesterday inaugurated a 100-bedded isolation centre as part of efforts to contain the spread of Coronavirus in the state. Abia has so far recorded two confirmed cases of COVID-19 infection though the two septuagenarian patients have been successfully treated and discharged. Ikpeazu said that the isolation centre set up at the Abia State Specialist Hospital, Amachara in Umuahia South Local Government Area was donated by Access Bank Plc in line with the private sector partnership in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The isolation centre, which is the largest in Abia has the full compliments of medical equipment and support facilities required for managing COVID-19 patients. Ikpeazu stated that the strategy of the state government in its war against COVID-19 was to keep the virus away from the state and its environs and to have the capacity to nurse patients back to life. He said that the facility had enhanced the state’s capacity to deal with the virus, adding that his administration would not spare any effort to overcome the pandemic. To this end, the governor disclosed that very soon Abia would have the capacity for testing Coronavirus as three molecular laboratories were underway, adding that plans had been concluded for training of more laboratory technicians. He promised to preserve and put to good use, all the medicals donated to the state, noting that such timeless equipment would remain useful even beyond the Covid-19 pandemic. The governor assured that Abia would ever remain vigilant in the fight against Covid-19. In his remarks the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) and chairman of the Covid-19, Mr. Chris Ezem acknowledged that the isolation facility was well equipped and lauded the donors for partnering with Abia government The zonal head, Access Bank plc, Mr. Kennedy Ojukwu, who represented the CEO, Herbert Wigwe ( a co-chair of CACOVID), explained that the 100- bed isolation centre was the bank’ s way of supporting Abia to the fight against Covid 19. He commended the efforts of the state government so far in containing the spread of Covid-19, adding that he was hopeful the facility would help Abia a great deal.