Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja No fewer than 30 bandits were killed in airstrike conducted by the Air Component of the Operation Hadarin Daji in Doumborou forest area of Zamfara State, the military has disclosed. The Coordinator of Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, said in a statement issued yesterday that the logistics store belonging to the bandits was also destroyed in the attack. According to the statement, the military acted based on credible intelligence, which indicated that a structure within the forest was being used by bandits to store their logistics. “The Air Component of Operation Hadarin Daji has destroyed an armed bandits’ logistics store and neutralised no fewer than 30 bandits in air strikes conducted yesterday, May 26, 2020, in the Doumborou Forest area of Zamfara State. “The operation was executed based on credible Human Intelligence (HUMINT) reports indicating that a thatched structure within the Forest was being used by the bandits to store their logistics items. Fortuitously, an Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft on patrol spotted some of the armed bandits on motorcycles who were tracked to the storehouse where they lodged some items. “The Air Component therefore dispatched an attack helicopter to engage the location, scoring accurate hits resulting in the destruction of the store, which was seen engulfed in flames. The attack helicopter subsequently trailed the armed bandits who fled the location and mopped them up in follow-on attacks, neutralizing no fewer than 30 of them as later confirmed by HUMINT sources”. It added that, “the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), commends the Air Component of Operation Hadarin Daji for their professionalism and directs them to remain resolute in the conduct of air strikes whilst continuing to provide close air support for ongoing ground operations in order to eradicate all armed bandits; thus achieving the directives of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) of restoring normalcy in the North West and North Central Zones of the country. “Furthermore, the Armed Forces of Nigeria sincerely appreciates the continued support and cooperation of all well-meaning Nigerians, as we keep up the tempo of our operations to defeat all enemies of our great nation”.