Emma Okonji Roducate, Nigeria’s first indigenous e-learning platform, has continued to offer the most comprehensive solutions needed to adopt e-learning on the massive scale that is needed, especially in addressing the current situation imposed on global economies by the COVID-19 pandemic that is currently ravaging the world. The Covid-19 pandemic has led to school closures in Nigeria and the rest of the world. Everyone, including parents, teachers, students, and even government, are beginning to think towards e-learning as the only way to keep students engaged and learning during this period, even though the e-learning world is hard to navigate because most platforms focus on a niche area.
Roducate says it offers content from Primary 1 all the way through to university and that it uses only government approved curriculum, which is endorsed by NERDC, NUC, JAMB, Lagos State Ministry of Education and the African Union. Students and parents do not have to worry about fending for themselves on less popular subjects. Roducate carries not only Mathematics and English, but also subjects as diverse as Music and Cisco/ICT. Roducate caters to different learning styles such as lecture notes for avid readers, podcasts for auditory learners, and tutorial videos for visual learners. Schools can create their own platform on Roducate and access to the platform will be limited to their students. They can choose to present only their own content or present Roducate’s content as well. The company’s CEO, Femisola Awosika, in a recent statement, said: “With countries adopting e-learning as a means of minimizing the disruption in education during COVID-19 pandemic, our children must not be left behind.” According to Awosika, “Roducate carries both West African and East African curricula. So it’s a solution that can be used across the continent. The company has proven itself capable of playing on the big stage as it is the engine behind UBALearn, Glo Mobile Tutor, and ARMLearn. Roducate app has logged over 700,000 unique subscribers. It is available, on the web, mobile web, USSD, and iOS/Android/KaiOS.” Roducate has a solution for even the biggest problem we face, which is that the majority of Nigerian students don’t have access to internet enabled devices. The company has created a version of it’s app called Roducate Mass and offers this version preloaded on a smart feature phone which consumes very limited data. To further minimize data use, Roducate Mass is accessible offline. It is also designed to ensure child safety online, Awosika said.