CargoSafe, the next-generation anti-theft solution, developed by Concept Nova, has been named ‘the best anti-theft solution available in the market’ by corporate organizations and other customers due to its strategic role in saving cost. Concept Nova’s General Manager, Itiekhao Ikpeminogena, said the CargoSafe solution was designed to help corporate organizations and essential service providers save cost by preventing potential losses incurred from theft or goods diversions in their day to day operations. “For most businesses with goods either in transit or stored in warehouses, theft or goods diversion occurrences lead to massive losses because they are unprepared to handle such situations. With our affordable tamper-proof solution, CargoSafe, threats are neutralised, valuable goods and assets remain 100 per cent protected and high return on investment is enjoyed.” Ikpeminogena said. Warehouse Manager at a Manufacturing company, one of many customers of the solution, Mr. Abiodun Adedeji, said CargoSafe had helped his business to succeed. According to Adedeji: “Success for us means accountability and proper storage keeping. Last year, our warehouses in Apapa and Mile 2 in Lagos, were frequently robbed, leaving us with damaged property and loss of goods. We tried several security measures, from new security guards to CCTV but nothing fully worked. Concept Nova’s CargoSafe solution stepped up security game with its product. Since we fully integrated the solution, we have saved millions of Naira, increased accountability and successfully mastered how to prevent theft incidents.” Ikpeminogena added: “Several other benefits enjoyed from the solution include access to detailed audit and reports on the security of your valuables, remote lock and unlock access restricted to authorised personnel, as well as real-time alerts and notifications via email, SMS and the App to every relevant stakeholder on all lock/unlock/suspicious activities.” Concept Nova’s CargoSafe solution is addressing theft challenges experienced by businesses, while creating value geared towards achieving a safer and Connected Economy. The tamper-proof Solution has helped many businesses in several industries, ranging from Freight and Haulage, Manufacturing, ICT, Pharmaceuticals, Retail and Wholesale, Mobile Telecommunications amongst others.