Peter Uzoho The Efik Leadership Foundation (ELF), a non-governmental organisation (NGO), has expressed relief with the swift response given to its letter by President Muhammadu Buhari, whom it wrote on Monday to intervene in the “deplorable state of COVID-19 response” in Cross River State. ELF in a statement yesterday by the Chairman of its Board of Trustees, Mr. Richard Duke, thanked Buhari for heeding to its requests and directing among other things, that an expert delegation visits the state. The foundation added that the president’s decision to formally incorporate federal medical institutions across the country into the COVID-19 response was an added boost to the national COVID-19 response. ELF said: “Today, two days after we submitted our letter, we are greatly relieved and pleased that Mr. President, through Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, heeded our requests and directed not only that an expert delegation visit the state but also that federal medical institutions across the country will be formally incorporated into the COVID-19 response in the states, including Cross River State. “This latter decision is a most welcome added boost to the National COVID-19 response of which ELF can be justifiably proud. “The ELF wishes to express its deep and most sincere thanks to Mr. President, the Minister of Health, the PTF on COVID-19, the NCDC as well as the many men and women of goodwill in and outside the state who commended and expressed support for our efforts.” However, ELF said it was “surprised and deeply saddened, however, that our sincere and completely apolitical act of concern and love for all the dear people of our state was grossly misunderstood and our NGO maligned by individuals who obviously have a very dangerously limited understanding of the COVID-19 pandemic and the grave dangers it presents to us all”. It added that it looked forward to the visit by the federal government delegation and continued to look to the state government for a much more robust, comprehensive and all-inclusive response to this pandemic.” “May we continue to have the courage to speak truth to power when necessary,” the foundation noted.