SOCIETY WATCH With Adebayo Adeoye Those who know Kenny Chukwuma, Managing Partner and Head of International Law, Ken and Kent Lawyers, Abuja, say he is a man of beautiful ideas. This, undoubtedly, is not a fulsome praise, considering the fact that he is admired for his brains and guts.
Indeed, his wizardry as a lawyer beggars description and he is fast becoming a shining star in the nation’s legal firmament. He is also not a pushover when it comes to legal matters; his forte is in immigration, citizenship and visa advisory services amongst other areas of legal practice. When you watch him in action, you will be enthralled by his articulation and aplomb. Chukwuma, who is endowed with great poise and infectious charm, understands the importance of global citizenship and believes that as the world is becoming a global market, there is need for Africans, especially Nigerians to enjoy the freedom of travelling to different parts of the world for business, tourism and to explore international markets for foreign investments without hindrances like visas and travel permits. His chambers is an approved representative of the citizenship by Investment programme for the Caribbean Island of Grenada, which is a sovereign island in the West Indies and a member of the Commonwealth of Nations and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). Grenada is a politically stable and peaceful country with idyllic environment and weather. Citizens of Grenada enjoy Visa free travel to more than 130 countries, including United Kingdom, Ireland Schengen countries, China and Russia.
Most importantly, it is the only Caribbean country whose citizens can apply to live, work and invest in the USA under the Investor Treaty US E-2 Visa. With the COVID 19 pandemic, which has resulted in huge number of deaths and threatened socio-economic development around the globe, many countries in Europe, America, Asia and Australia have resolved to protect their borders and territories by adopting tight measures and stringent immigration policies. The key area of focus for these countries is reducing the number of Visas granted to individuals wishing to travel for a variety of reasons to the countries. Speaking with Society Watch, he said since it had become expedient for Nigerians to seek dual citizenship/second passports from certain countries in order to benefit from Visa free travels and gain the right to live, work and invest in other continents around the world, he had assisted clients applying for Grenada Citizenship through their Citizenship by Investment programme backed by the Grenada Citizenship by Investment Act 2013, Act No 15. According to him, the application process usually takes around 120 days and there are no requirements for residency in Grenada, interviews or language tests. The well-travelled and handsome lawyer holds a Master’s degree in International Business Law from London, United Kingdom, where he lived and worked for almost two decades before returning to Nigeria in 2013 to be enrolled as Barrister and Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Nigeria. He has a decade experience in the area of Immigration Law and provides strategic advisory services to individuals and businesses operating in the ECOWAS and European Union regional markets.