By Emma Okonji The Nigerian Computer Society (NCS), the umbrella body of all IT practitioners in Nigeria, has expressed its worries over what it described as slow response on the part of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), in the registration process and issuance of National Identity Number (NIN). NCS has therefore offered to help NIMC and governments at all levels, in expediting action in the registration process and issuance of NIN. The President of NCS, Prof. Adesina Sodiya, who made the offer known in Lagos through a statement, said the progress of work on the NIMC project was not good enough and that the management of the current COVID-19 pandemic could be better managed with a good and acceptable National Identity database.
Sodiya said NCS shall support NIMC to create a framework for issuance of temporary National Identity Number using complex data matching algorithm and facial recognition. According to him, “This will allow Nigerians to register for NIMC by themselves using a simple mobile phones. The application will be capable of working offline with upload to the central server when the network is available. Nigerians can get their NIN in a “DO IT YOURSELF” framework and from the comfort of their homes. NIMC can still collect and add fingerprints later for the temporary NIN to be permanent, if fingerprint is important.”
Sodiya said NCS and associated organs and partners would collaborate to deliver the platform for NIMC within 180 days, and that NCS would also deliver a robust platform for management of aids, foods, materials, among others, during this pandemic period. Giving details of collaboration, Sodiya Said: “All the agents and partners of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Non-Government Organisations, and donors will assist to register Nigerians before giving out aids and foods. This means such agencies can also track and check if the beneficiaries had received from other agencies before giving out more. “Nigerians should be mandated to make sure they register themselves before they can access aids from government and all donors must register all beneficiaries of their efforts. This is our proposal and simple and pragmatic solutions.This is our professional intervention to solving major National crisis for the benefit and pride of Nigerians. It is time Nigerian professionals prove their worth.” Sodiya, however, said the proposal would require the support, collaboration, and blessings of NIMC, Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and other related agencies.