Consequent upon the premiere of a new real estate TV show, National Real Estate Today, multinationals and other big brands have started to partner with the organisers. The TV programme which comes up on May 30, at 10pm, has the Principal Partner of M.I. Okoro & Associates, Dr. Meckson Innocent Okoro and his team, as executive producers and have confirmed massive endorsement of the programme and signing on of adverts placement on the programme. Stakeholders say that the interest to partner with the programme by way of adverts from business operating in Nigeria and outside Nigeria have been quite overwhelming and impressive. “This is a manifestation of the positive impact Dr. M.I. Okoro has made in the real estate sector before his decision to set up a TV platform on Real Estate practice and products in Nigeria. Our correspondent gathered that Wichtech Group of Companies has signed on for advert placement as long as the programme is on-air. Wichtech Group of Companies is the manufacturer of the best roofing sheet known as Wichtech in Africa. The company also represents as sole agent for the distribution of the best quality paint in Africa, popularly known as Betek Paint and other building materials related products. Expressing his happiness for partnership with NATIONAL REAL ESTATE TODAY TV Programme, Dr. Chidozie Nwankwo, the Group MD/CEO of WICHTECH Group of Companies commended the Executive Producer of the TV programme on Real Estate, Okoro, for his foresight and marketing aggressiveness for creating this window of advertising via TV Programme, stating that Real Estate TV platform will compliment his company’s adverts in CNN. Similarly, the biggest expatriate furniture manufacturing company based in Lagos Nigeria – VAVA Furniture Group of Companies Ltd — has equally endorsed the programme and has signed on for adverts on quarterly basis. Also expressing his happiness for this type of programme that will touch every aspect of human endeavour, Ambassador Michael Tawadrous gave a thumb up to Dr. M.I. Okoro for his creativity in establishing the programme. He further said the TV programme will meet the needs of all those operating in the housing industry as well as giving a platform and voice for dealers in building materials, and household equipment and furniture cum interior decors. One of the Mega Real Estate operators with co-operative identity, Perfection Real Estate Cooperative and Development Company Limited, has equally endorsed the show and signed on as a strategic partner with the programme. The company specialises in interior designs and dealers in furniture product parties with the programme and the company has been positioned to take advantage of the robust visibility from the show. The National Real Estate Today show will give them for the marketing of their furniture Products. The MD/CEO of MARQUE Furniture Company, Mrs. Pelumi Idowu, has expressed her delight in her partnership with the programme. As the show kicks off on Saturday, May 30, Okoro has assured the viewing public that the show will do everything possible to assist in disseminating information in real estate that would beneficial to both the government and people of Nigeria. “Those putting adverts on our show must get value for their investment, while also protecting the interest of prospective buyers of the products advertised,” Okoro said.