Leading Consumer Goods Company in Nigeria, Procter & Gamble, has partnered the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs, state governments and non-profit organizations to celebrate the 2020 Menstrual Hygiene Day. With this initiative, P&G will provide over 150,000 Always® sanitary pads to its partners to promote menstrual hygiene management in the country. This announcement was made ahead of the celebration of the menstrual hygiene day and the distribution of menstrual hygiene kits to girls and women in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) by the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development. Over the years, P&G has delivered several programs in Nigeria aimed at educating citizens on effective health and hygiene practices. In line with the company’s commitment to doing good, this initiative will impact thousands of adolescent girls to ensure adequate menstrual hygiene. Speaking about the partnership, the P&G Africa Director for Government Relations & Public Policy, Dr. (Mrs.) Temitope Iluyemi said, “At P&G, we continue to deliver on our promise of making everyday life better for our consumers. More than ever, we are extremely glad to partner the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs to celebrate the World Menstrual Hygiene Day which advocates for the importance of good menstrual hygiene management”. “As a company, P&G is a force for good and a force for growth in the communities where we live and work. This year, not only do we acknowledge that periods do not stop even amidst the current global pandemic, we are driving the global theme; ‘It’s Time for Action’. To this end, we have given out over 150,000 sanitary pads to drive menstrual hygiene awareness and have invested in menstrual health education through our Always® Keeping Girls In School Program (AKGIS) program and our Always® School Program – which jointly impact over one million girls annually. “So many myths and taboos arise around menstruation, making it a potentially frightening experience for young girls. It’s imperative we debunk these through the ongoing awareness that opens up the dialogue on periods and the need for MHM as a basic requirement in human dignity.” Dr. (Mrs.) Iluyemi added. In her remarks, the Honourable Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Dame Pauline Tallen, OFR, KSG, added, “Menstruation is not a curse, but a blessing which every girl and woman should live with utmost dignity confidence and pride, while observing the highest rate of hygiene and safety. The lack of access to menstrual hygiene products, lack of sanitation infrastructure, and lack of menstrual hygiene education can impact negatively on their ability to reach their full potential in school, in the workplace, or at home. Therefore, Menstrual Hygiene Management is key to healthy, productive and dignified lives for women and girls.” “This menstrual hygiene day is particularly significant as it affords me the opportunity to launch the distribution of a “One Million Girls Pads Distribution Project” aimed at cushioning the effect of COVID-19 on our women and girls. It is expected that each of the beneficiaries will receive at least 4 packs of sanitary towels. This project targets adolescent girls in all states of the federation. As a result, P&G’s contributions not only reflect our priorities, but also catalyze our efforts as we kick off the first phase of this project”, she added. Other governments, agencies and non-profit organizations supported by Procter & Gamble for the 2020 Menstrual Hygiene Day include the National Center for Women Development, the Northern Governors’ Wife Forum, Ogun state government, Bauchi state government, the ACIOE Foundation, United Way for Greater Nigeria, Purple Girl Foundation, Women Inspiring Impact Network, Women at Risk International Foundation (WARIF), and the Nigerian Girl Guides Association. For over 25 years in Nigeria, Procter & Gamble, producer of notable brands like Always®, Ariel®, Pampers®, Gillette®, Oral B® and Safeguard®, has been an active investor in Nigeria, creating over 4,000 jobs through its manufacturing operations in Ibadan and Lagos and its world class distributor center in Agbara. P&G’s Always® Keeping Girls in School Program has reached vulnerable girls with essential menstrual health management training and donation of a year supply of sanitary pads, so that they can commit to their education and their future while its Always® School program has provided almost a Million school-age girls with Always® sanitary towels, puberty and hygiene education and over 150 educational grants to pursue their dreams. In addition, the Always/UNESCO program is empowering over 110,000 Nigerian girls and women with basic literacy and skills development through ICT in Northern Nigeria.