Nigeria’s 1st weight loss reality TV show, the faSttest shedder, sponsored by Three Crowns milk came to an end on April 18, 2020. Yetunde Bajomo, who had the highest percentage weight loss of 26.6, shedding off 31.6kg, emerged winner of the flagship prize of a Car. Yetunde started the Show weighing 118.8kg and ended weighing 87.2kg. Like Shakespeare once submitted, through the title of one of his timeless books, “All is well that ends well”, the show kicked off on the 18th of January 2020 as a 90-day eventful programme for viewers across Nigeria. It started with ten housemates also known as Shedders, each weighing an average weight of 100kg. They were kept in a bootcamp under assisted and supervised conditions which included daily physical exercise, healthy eating habits, nutrition coaching, mental tasks and entertaining activities, with the aim of helping them lose weight to keep fit for the three months period. This ultimately taught them a healthy way of living for their overall well-being. The first runner up was Joy who lost 23.2kg, having weighed 108kg when the show began and dropped to 84.8kg, leading to a %weightloss of 21.5. Following closely was Adaugo, who started the show weighing 153.3kg and concluded with a weight of 122.7kg, thus shedding 30.6kg, %weightloss of 19.9. She also emerged as the overall winner of the weekly Three Crowns milk task as she accumulated the most Three Crowns milk Calorie Currency. Her prize for this is a year free gym subscription and Three Crowns milk products. This is the third season since inception of the show and the second time Three Crowns milk will be the lead sponsor. At the second edition in 2019, Ada Onwubuya emerged as Season 2 winner with a %weightloss of 23.1, Vera Agu was the 1st runner-up with %weightloss of 20.0, while 2nd runner-up was Omobola Akinde who recorded a %weightloss of 19.3 at the end of the 3rd month. Yetunde Bajomo, season 3 winner, Joy Emedom , 1st runner Up and Adaugo Nwakuche, 2nd runner up expressed their delight and thanked Three Crowns milk for contributing immensely to their journey to becoming healthier women. In their words, “it is indeed a dream come true and our body transformations came much sooner than we ever imagined”. Shedams, the CEO and Creator of the faSttest shedder, expressed his gratitude to Three Crowns milk for supporting his vision. He also shared some testimonials from the housemates, Yetunde said; “At some point in my life, I was living on painkillers, and they weren’t even working anymore, but experiencing these transformations in and out of my body, I feel so free! I am thankful to God and Shedams who gave me another chance at happiness despite all the criticisms and insults from people around me’’. Joy; “This amazing experience has brought my confidence back because I look so much younger than my age!” Adaugo; “ The weekly tasks by Three Crowns milk made my stay more fun and memorable as I was always looking forward to a good distraction away from the rigorous workouts, I am so glad I embarked on this rehabilitation journey in a bid to stay healthy for my daughter, family and myself” At the grand finale, Yetunde Bajomo, who emerged winner got a brand new car and Joy Emedom, who was the favorite Shedder by public votes, won a Threadmill. Adaugo Nwakuche was rewarded with one year supply of Three Crowns milk and one year gym subscription for emerging overall winner in the weekly task. Underscoring the importance of partnering with the reality TV Show,Junior Brand Manager, Three Crowns, Mrs. Olaobaju Omotayo, explained that the brand had always been mindful of the fact that apart from being health conscious, every Nigerian mum wants to look good, fit and feel confident on the outside. She implored the Shedders to continue the new lifestyle even beyond the camp and extend same to their friends and families. Three Crowns milk, Nigeria’s leading low cholesterol milk brand, is a brand from the stable of FrieslandCampina WAMCO, the country’s largest dairy company, and has been in Nigeria for over 60 years. The Company believes that milk is an essential nutrient for every individual. For three decades, Three Crowns milk has nourished mothers and their families with essential vitamins and minerals that support their well being.