A Nigerian business mogul and philanthropist, Valentine Ozigbo, has commended the leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Anambra State Chapter, for raising the sum of N125 million to support vulnerable families affected by the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. Ozigbo, who is one of the leading donors to PDP’s Covid-19 Palliatives Fund, in a press statement on Sunday, said that the philanthropic move by the main opposition party in the state was “what any responsible organisation would do”. PDP leaders led by the 2019 vice-presidential candidate of the party and former governor of the Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi, had raised N125 million palliative for the vulnerable in the state. The main opposition party in the state also pledged to set up a testing centre within 21 days in Anambra State as well as support healthcare workers in the front lines in the fight against the Covi-19 pandemic. According to him, “In such an uncertain and difficult time, it is important that we show up as leaders in providing comfort and hope to those most affected by the economic disruptions and upheaval caused by this global health pandemic. “I commend the leadership of His Excellency Peter Obi, Senator Stella Oduah, Senator Uche Ekwunife, and Chief Linus Ukachukwu, other elected officials, and stakeholders of the party for this compassionate intervention. “I believe that this N125 million intervention which goes into direct cash transfers to vulnerable families, setting up a world-class testing centre, and various donations to hospitals is the first of its kind by an opposition political party in Nigeria. “Worthy of note is that a part of this fund will be used to set up a testing centre. Testing is a major factor in the battle against this virus. With this intervention, Anambra will be equipped with a world-class testing centre for now, and the future. “In view of the overwhelming importance of this health-related project, I call on the Anambra State government and the federal government to deploy resources to support this bold initiative.” Ozigbo, who is the immediate past President and CEO of Transcorp Plc, also called on all well-meaning and well-placed Anambrarians to be inspired by this novel philanthropic act of Anambra PDP and reach out to their communities. The respected business leader is one of the philanthropists in the front lines of creating social safety nets, relief, and education to those affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Through his charity, Chineto Ozigbo Foundation, he has provided various palliative including 15,000 masks, and 3,000 bags of rice worth over N20 million. Ozigbo, a former top banker, has also provided a personal guarantee of N100 million to support businesses in Anambra in accessing the Central Bank of Nigeria’s N50 billion Covid-19 Intervention Loan; a gesture, which has been given high marks as a novel move by a politician during this healthcare and economic crisis. His foundation also launched the Ogene and Mbem contests, which leveraged culture in the dissemination of information. He also partnered with young professionals to develop an app, COVIDNG.com that provides self-assessment and other vital information to users.