* Female aspirants to pay N1m for expression Of interest forms By Chuks Okocha The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that its governorship aspirants in Edo and Ondo chapters of the party will pay the sum of N21 million each to purchase the nomination forms. The party also said that governorship forms was free for all female aspirants in the two states. According to the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Kola Ologbondiyan, who gave details of the sale of the governorship nomination forms said that the male governorship aspirants will pay N20 million and another one million naira for the expression of interest form. The spokesman of the PDP further explained that the governorship nomination forms was free for all female aspirants from Edo and Ondo States. However, he said that all female governorship aspirants will have to pay a one million naira for the expression of interest to enable them contest for the governorship primary elections in the two states. Meanwhile, as part of preparations for the governorship election in Ondo and Edo states, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has released timetable for the election of its governorship candidate, stating that sale of forms in Ondo State will commence on June 22, while notice of election in the state will be issued on June 2. Also, for Edo state, the party said that the last day for the submission of the completed governorship forms, according to a statement signed by the National Organising Secretary, Col.Austin Akobundu, was June 2. According to the National Organising Secretary of PDP, Austin Akobundu, the sale of expression of interest and the governorship forms will commence on June 22 in Ondo state and the last date for the return of completed forms is June 26, while screening of aspirants would commence July 2. The ward congresses to elect a three man ad-hoc ward delegates is slated for July 8. The ward congresses appeal if any is slated for July 13 The local government Congresses to elect national delegates is slated for July 15 and the local government appeal would take place on July 18 while the publication of the list of delegates will take place on July 20. The election or nomination of the party’s governorship candidate is slated for Wednesday July 22 and Thursday July 23 while the appeal on the outcome, if any will take place on July 24. The certification of the deputy governorship candidate by the National Working Committee of the party will take place on July 27 while the last day to submit the name of the governorship candidate to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is on July 28. The last day for withdrawal and replacement of candidates is on August 18 The party said that the last day for submission of names of local government agents to INEC was September 24, while election will take place on October 10. The screening exercise for all those that completed and returned the governorship forms, according to the party, is June 4, while the appeal for those that are dissatisfied with the screening is also June 4. The National Organising Secretary stated further that the ward elections to elect three ad-hoc delegates will take place on June 9 and the appeal for those dissatisfied with the outcome of the process was slated for June 12. In the same manner, Col Akobundu (rtd) said that election of local government delegates to pick national delegates that will elect the governorship candidate of the party would be on June 16 and the appeal slated for June 19. According to the PDP National Organising Secretary, the election of the party’s governorship candidate would take place between June 23 and June 24, any appeal arising from it would be on June 26 . The party said the date for the submission of the name of the governorship candidate to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will take place on July 13, while the last date for the submission of local government agents to INEC is September 1, and the date fir election is September 19.