Following report by the Reformed Niger Delta Avengers (RNDA) that it would go after those who are undermining the works of the Minister of Niger Delta, Senator Godswill Akpabio, the Niger Delta Renaissance Coalition has condemned RNDA’s position, saying “the sentiments expressed in the report do not represent the views of the Niger Delta people who have rejected the minister and his IMC.” The group through its Coordinator, Comrade Demiebi Alalibo George, said that Niger Delta Renaissance Coalition and the entire region could not be deterred or intimidated by blackmail. It averred that Akpabio and the interim management committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission could never intimidate them. Recall that RNDA had recently described as provocative the alleged sponsored campaigns against Senator Akpabio and Acting Managing Director of NDDC, Prof Pondei, saying that their action could provoke youths of the region “to make public the list of those suspected to be the sponsors of such campaign and declare them wanted in the region.” Commanding Officer of RNDA, self-styled “Major General” Johnmark Ezonebi, aka Obama, had in a statement said: “Henceforth, we warn the sponsors, who mobilize disgruntled youths, criminals that lack ideas to protest, blackmail and call for the removal of the Acting MD, NDDC to stop or else, RNDA will come after them one by one. “We are aware that these corrupt politicians and group of corrupt contractors, who could be described as idols of abandoned projects feeding fat with NDDC funds before now are involved in cooking fake doctored documents to blackmail the acting MD and to dent the image of Senator Akpabio.” Reacting to this threat,, Niger Delta Renaissance Coalition said, RNDA and the ‘Major General’ Johnmark Ezonebi, aka ‘Obama’ in that report were fictitious, they do not exist. It said the sentiments expressed in the report do not represent the views of the Niger Delta people who had rejected the minister and his IMC. Comrade George therefore urged the Minister of Niger Delta and the IMC to “concentrate on defending the allegations of fraud made against them. They should explain to Nigerians how billions of naira were allegedly withdrawn from the accounts of the NDDC in the last few months without due process, rather than threatening their accusers through media channels.” Commending the national assembly, the group said, “We commend the decision of the Senate and House of Representatives to probe these allegations, in line with their constitutional mandate of oversight. We urge them to carry out their assignment without fear or favour. All attempts to blackmail and threaten the National Assembly, Niger Deltans and other Nigerians who are insisting on the probe, must not be condoned.”