From Catalan giants- Barcelona to Serie A rivals-AC Milan and Inter, not to mention the several top English clubs his name has been linked with, Osimhen’s name has no doubt been linked more than any other ahead of the summer transfer window. With Liverpool back in the fray, Lille’s wizkid may be heading in the direction of Anfield That offers to prize away one of Nigeria’s biggest soccer export to Europe- Victor Osimhen from French club Lille is no longer news, so much so that Lille president Gerard Lopez has revealed that he has received offers for the attacker.
Liverpool have reportedly begun the process of completing a move for Lille star by opening talks with the player’s representatives. The 21-year-old is having a stunning debut season for the French outfit, scoring 18 goals in 38 appearances in all competitions, and is valued at £60million. Le10Sport in France claim that Jurgen Klopp’s men were at the front of the queue to sign him and had already set the ball rolling by speaking to his agent. The Reds are in the market for a new forward, with doubts now lingering over a proposed move for Leipzig frontman Tomo Werner, while the likes of Mo Salah and Sadio Mane continue to be linked with Real Madrid. Meanwhile, Manchester United, Leicester and Chelsea have also been credited with an interest in Osimhen, who was signed from Charleroi in Belgium last summer. The highly rated youngster has also drawn links to Spanish giants Barcelona as of late and it is understood that Inter have identified him as a player they could move for in the event that Lautaro Martinez is to depart the club in the coming months with him continually being linked with Barcelona. Inter’s city rivals AC Milan have also been linked with making a move for the young forward, who joined LOSC Lille this past Summer from Belgian Pro League club Charleroi. The former Wolfsburg player has made 38 appearances across all competitions to date this term. In just over 3000 minutes on the park, the 21-year-old has scored 18 goals and he has also provided six assists for his teammates. Only Neymar, Moussa Dembele, Wissam Ben Yedder and Kylian Mbappe have scored more goals than the promising 21-year-old in the French top flight this term.
The young forward, who Red Devils loanee Odion Ighalo claims is ‘future of Nigerian football’, and there are expected to be a number of clubs trying to land him once the summer transfer window opens up. The powerful forward had previously spoken of his ambitions to play in England during his career, while also warning interested parties that he would not settle for a bench-warming role. Earlier this month, Osimhen revealed his ambitions to ‘play for a big club in England’ and thanked fellow countryman Odion Ighalo for the advice he’s given him at the start of his career. ‘Of course, one day I’d like to play for a big club in England,’ he told The Independent. ‘I’ve spoken to Odion about it. He gave me very good advice, he’s a legend and a big brother. ‘My goal is to play at one of the biggest clubs in the world but now I’m very happy in Lille. ‘My priority is to play a lot of games. Signing for a big club and being on the bench is not exciting for me.’ Meanwhile, transfer expert Duncan Castles has stated that Osimhen would be allowed to leave Lille this summer if the French club get the fee they want for the player.
Lille believe Osimhen has the potential of becoming one of Europe’s top forwards in the next few years and they would be willing to let him go only if they feel they get enough money in return. “The information I have is that Liverpool have been in contact with Lille about their Nigeria centre-forward Victor Osimhen,” Castles said on the Transfer Window podcast.
“He’s attracting attention from a lot of clubs and has been fulfilling the potential he showed when he won the Golden Boot at the World Youth Cup a few years ago, scoring 10 goals in that particular tournament in Chile “They are open to selling him this summer but only if the market provides them with the right price. “And they’re very conscious that this may well not be the transfer window to sell a player of his talent. That will factor into their thinking. “They believe they’ve got a player who is going to turn into one of the top centre-forwards in European football.” Castles says the figure Lille want for Osimhen is around €80million (£69.5m) and are prepared to keep the player if that price is not matched. The 21-year-old is having a stunning debut season for the French side, and Lille are said to value the player at £60million if he is to leave in the summer. Meanwhile, there will be no chance for the Nigerian forward to clinch the top scorer award in the French top flight and his club to nick a UEFA Champions League spot, following the premature conclusion of the league campaign. Lille have been denied the opportunity to appear in a second consecutive Champions League after the LFP Board of Directors formally voted in favour of the stoppage of the 2019/20 Ligue 1 & Ligue 2 seasons. The development comes after the French government shut down sports events until September. Paris Saint-Germain have been declared champions, despite the season being ended early due to the coronavirus pandemic. Olympique Marseille and Rennes are the clubs set to join the champions for next season’s Champions League challenge. Before the break induced by the pandemic, Lille were placed fourth on the Ligue 1 table, a solitary point behind Rennes in third. Les Dogues, by their position, will compete in the Europa League next term.
Also, Monaco’s Yedder and PSG’s Mbappe will share the top scorer award after netting 18 goals this term. Osimhen is a further five goals behind in the fifth position and would feel disappointed that he was denied the chance to make up grounds on the winners in the 10 cancelled games. It’s a further blow for the Super Eagles striker, whose club has also been knocked into the Europa League for the 2020/21 campaign. With Real Madrid Manager Zinedine Zidane is still said to be searching for Cristiano Ronaldo’s replacement at the Bernabeu, especially given big-money signing Eden Hazard’s injury problems since his switch to Spain. The Reds front man, Mane has emerged as a top target for the La Liga giants after another impressive campaign on Merseyside, which is why Liverpool are craving for the signature of Osimhen should they lose the Senegalese to Bernabeu. In 2016, Osimhen turned down a move to Arsenal after Arsene Wenger had revealed he was close to bringing him to the Emirates.