By Duro Ikhazuagbe The General Manager of Aurebles Gas Company Ltd, Mr. Sam John has explained why the Owerri-based indigenous medical oxygen manufacturing company donated 600 cubic meter of their product to Imo State government in the fight to stop the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Speaking with THISDAY during the week, the General Manager said that as an Owerri-based Company, it was natural that charity should begin at home to support the effort of Gov. Hope Uzodimma in the battle to contain the virus that has killed hundreds of thousands of persons around the world. “We are an Owerri-based company and since we manufacture medical oxygen which is one of the major components needed in hospital to resuscitate those already afflicted with the respiratory illness, we deem it proper and fit to start our Corporate Social Responsibility from home,” observed the former editor with the Daily Times Newspapers Group. He said that Chairman of Aurebles Gas Company Limited, Chief Reginald Omeni Ikpeawujo who made the 600 cubic meters donation to Chairman of Imo State Task Force on Covid-19, Prof. Maurice Iwu, at the Government House in Owerri recently expressed his delight at the commitment of the state government in the efforts to check the spread of the dreaded virus in Imo. While expressing his concern over the rapid spread of the virus in the country, the Aurebles Gas Chairman noted that the 600 Cubic meters of gas his company denoted to Imo State will be sufficient to provide oxygen for over 1,000 patients. He stated that Imo State will not have any oxygen shortage if ever there is need for it. Chief Omeni further assured Imolites that his company will be willing to offer any assistance deemed necessary by the Gov. Uzodimma administration as part of his company’s corporate social responsibility (CSR). Prof. Maurice Iwu, while receiving the donation on behalf of the state, thanked the management of Aurebles Gas for identifying with Imo at this trying time. Iwu stated that their donation of medical oxygen was very essential to the fight against coronavirus, stating that the disease is a respiratory one that requires enough oxygen to handle it. The former INEC Boss appreciated the owner of the company for citing the multi-million naira company in the state and assured him that Governor Uzodimma who is desirous to help investors in the state will partner Aurebles Ltd in the days to come. Apart from the donation to Imo State, Aurebles Gas Ltd has also listed donations to be made to Edo, Delta, Abia, Rivers states amongst others as part of the company’s support for the fight against the coronavirus pandemic in the country. As at Thursday evening, there were 381 reported new cases of the virus, taking the total infection in the country to 3,526.