Experts have tasked African leaders to execute people-focused programmes, and harped on the importance of proactive data collection. This was during a virtual colloquium to celebrate the 63rd birthday of the Minister of Interior and former Governor of Osun State, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, held last week. Speakers at the online conference with the theme, Leadership in Emergencies: Planning as Foundation for National Survival, were Mr Kurtis Adigba, a board member of the International Association of Political Consultants; Dr Rabiat Akande of the Harvard University, and Dr Alim Abubakre, an alumnus of the University of Southampton and member advisory board of London Business School Africa Society. Adigba, who is also a renowned television political analyst in Nigeria said being proactive is one of the critical qualities of good leadership and praised President Muhammadu Buhari for restrictions on imported rice despite initial criticism. “What would have been the situation if Nigeria was to be waiting for rice from other parts of the world if he had not banned rice importation?” he asked. Dr Akande, also spoke on data and its importance to managing emergencies, and advocated for proactive data collection as part of comprehensive planning for emergencies. She challenged the National Assembly to legislate on data privacy and collection, just as she urged them to seek ways to make such laws native to the country. Akande lauded Aregbesola for the introduction of the Tablet of Knowledge when he served as governor of Osun, adding this was a demonstration of foresight which leaders must always have. Dr Alim Abubakre added that effective and strategic leadership remains the bane of progress in the Nigeria. He explained that virtual learning is fast becoming the norm and digital credentials are essential for success. Aregbesola during his comments said, “Every head of government understands that Tablet of Knowledge is compulsory and has to be encouraged. “It universalises education and process of it. It is the easiest way to make knowledge acquisition simpler and easier. It can be used by those who are not even in the conventional educational centres and those who are in conventional centres. That is the beauty of it.”