The Lagos State Government Saturday mourned the death of Justice Isiaka Ishola Oluwa, saying he would be remembered for his meritorious service and contribution to the growth of the state. Also, a former Deputy National Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Chief Olabode George and Senator Musiliu Obanikoro paid tribute to the late judge, who died yesterday at 102. In a letter of condolence signed by the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN), the state government said the deceased was an erudite and a rare bred Lagosian. The letter read: “On behalf of the Lagos State Ministry of Justice, I wish to commiserate with the entire Oluwa family on the transition of our beloved Justice Isiaka Ishola Oluwa at a ripe old age of 102 years on Saturday. “The news of the demise of our revered judicial icon, Justice Oluwa is a mixture of sadness and happiness. Happiness; because his transition is a celebration of an impactful life, well lived and sadness because we will miss his fatherly presence and wisdom at this time. “Oluwa was an erudite, rare bred Lagosian who spent his time in retirement canvassing and championing the cause and interest of Lagosians in every sphere of endeavour. I know him to be outspoken about the political relevance of Lagosians in all matters of appointments relevant to the management of the state.” In his statement, George described Justice Oluwa as a man of truth, fearlessness and justice, saying the late jurist confronted the faces of evil and dark leadership with bold bravura. He said: “I am saddened, touched and disturbed by the passage of Justice Isiaka Oluwa. He was a good man. He was a Lagosian original, predicated on truth, fearlessness and justice. He feared no one. He embraced everyone: the downtrodden, the trampled, those who had no voice. “There was certain defiance about this man; a certain certitude of purpose and a deliberate insistence on ensuring that the truth must be told all the time; no matter whose ox is gored. “He was brave, indifferent to the tools of animadversion; he confronted the tools of power with the typical Lagosian aura; he was locked with firm, logical attestation that the truth must always be told. He was a rarity; almost strange, audacious, frank, assertive who challenged the evil of the hour without self-protectiveness. “ Obanikoro, in a tribute, said: “It is with a heavy heart but total submission to the will of Allah, that I join the people of Lagos to mourn the passing of one of our fathers and advocates of a new Lagos, Justice Isiaka Ishola Oluwa, at the enviable age of 102 years. “As a lawyer and judge of note, Justice Oluwa was courageous and never shied away from the truth. He supported every just cause and ensured that justice prevailed in everything that he was involved with. “His life as a Lagosian was even the more worthy of note. He was one native of Lagos, who was unpretentious about the progress and development of the state. He loved Lagos and did everything within his capacity to advance the cause of the state. “I, therefore, join all native Lagosians, Nigerians and the learned world in general to mourn one of the most amazing creatures, who passed on, though at a time the world is going through a major challenge, however in the Holy month of Ramadan.”