Neymar’s agent has appeared to shut down rumours linking the Brazilian superstar with a return to Barcelona – claiming his client is likely to stay with PSG because of the impact of the coronavirus. The forward joined the Ligue 1 outfit in 2017 for a mouth-watering £200million from the Nou Camp after allegedly falling out with his teammates and seeking fresh scenery, but in recent years he has looked disillusioned with life in France. Barcelona are said to be interested in reunited Neymar with the likes of Lionel Messi and Luis Suarez, a trio which caused chaos for opposition teams when they played together, and have been linked with a big-money move to bring him back. But Neymar’s representative Wagner Ribeiro said the recent pandemic has completely changed the make-up of the game financially, and believes the player will end up staying at the Parc des Princes as a result. ‘I think Neymar will stay at PSG because the market is difficult,’ he said, as reported by UK’s the Sun. ‘The economic world of football will change.’ The Nou Camp outfit are said to be desperate to sign a new forward, having been linked with Inter’s Lautaro Martinez and Arsenal’s Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, but Neymar would be able to adjust quickly as he is already familiar with the set-up. Neymar blitzed his way to 105 goals for Barcelona in a successful spell across 186 games as he lifted eight trophies. But after four seasons with the club he eventually sought to establish himself as one of the world’s elite players and moved to Paris for a world-record fee. Although he has scored 69 goals in 80 games for the club, he has fallen out with supporters at times with accusations he has not given his all to the team. However, he recently appeared to turn a corner following his comeback from an injury last year and scored five goals in his last six games. Earlier this month former Manchester United midfielder Ander Herrera claimed the Brazil international was the most content he had been since joining. ‘I had dinner with Neymar before the quarantine and he is very involved with the project. He told me that he has never been so happy in Paris.’