By Oluchi Chibuzor President Muhammadu has appointed Mr. Alwan Hassan as the acting Managing Director of the Bank of Agriculture (BoA) His appointment came just as the President also approved immediate dissolution of the interim management team of the nation’s agricultural financial institutions. In a statement signed by the Director of Information, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Theodore Ogaziech, Hassan was a seasoned banker with over two decades of experience in the banking industry and was Chairman/CEO Midrange Universal Biz Limited. According to the statement, his appointment was conveyed to him by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono via a letter dated May 5, 2020, with reference No. PRES/95/MARD/14. It stated that acting BoA boss worked with Bank PHB, FirstBank of Nigeria, African International Bank Limited, United Bank for Africa and the Central Bank of Nigeria. The statement quoted the minister to have said Hassan’s appointment was most apt and would expectedly turn the fortunes of bank around considering his decades of experience in the banking sector. “The Bank of Agriculture being the nation’s apex agricultural and rural development finance institution, saddled with the responsibility of providing agricultural credit facilities in support of agricultural value chain activities, will benefit immensely from the vast banking experiences of Alwan Ali Hassan. “Hassan hails from Kano State and holds a Master’s Degree in Business Administration. He has served on the Management Boards of Orient Bank, Uganda; Bank PHB in the Gambia and Platinum Capital and Trust Limited, Nigeria. “Alwan Hassan, who until his appointment was Chairman/CEO Midrange Universal Biz Ltd., is a member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers, the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors among others. “He also has a thorough grooming of management prowess having attended trainings at the famous IMD Business School Lausanne, Switzerland and Intrados Business School, Washington DC, USA,” the statement added.