Mary Nnah Over 15 families in each of the eleven communities of Okori in Eleme local government area have received cash from the Appolus Chu Foundation as palliative to cushion the harsh effect of the Covid-19 lockdown and social distance order. According to a report made available to THISDAY by HRH Appolus Chu, the Egbere Emere Okori Eleme, the paramount Ruler of Ogale Eleme, Rivers State, a total of 165 women received #20,000 each to help them purchase various foodstuffs or support their farming to enable them cope with the hardship occasioned by the stay-at-home order of the government as a result of the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Officials of the Foundation moved from one community to another while disbursing the funds in the palace of each of the village heads of Okori community in compliance with the social distance order to avoid the usual large crowd at the palace of the Egbere Emere Okori Eleme, each time the Foundation embarks on its social welfare scheme. Thrilled over this development, Chairman of Eleme Local Government Covid-19 Committee, Hon. Elder Mimi Aaron Mimi, applauded King Appolus Chu on the gestures of putting food on the table of his people in a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has succeeded in crumbling the world’s economy. He further called on the elites of Eleme land to emulate King Appolus Chu. Expressing delight, one of the beneficiaries, Mrs. Grace Oluka from Okori Agbonchia said, “We thank you our caring father, His Royal Highness, Appolus Chu for giving us this money during this period of lockdown.” Chief Amado Chu of Okori Aleto said: “I thank His Royal Highness, King Dr. Appolus Chu, for what he has done for us today, he has done things that are rarely seen in this our region, may his source of finance never run dry”. On his part, Chief Clement Ngelale from Okori Ekporo said: “We are very grateful to our king, Dr. Appolus Chu, who has made it possible for the women of Okori Ekporo to benefit, from his kind gesture by giving them the sum of N20,000 each to support them in Agriculture and to assist them during this period of Corona virus that has put the world economy in a standstill. We lack words to express our gratitude to him. Furthermore, the women leader of Okori Ekporo Community, Chief (Mrs.) Comfort Lekwa while commending King Appolus Chu, revealed that the cash gift from him came at the right time since this is the period of farming season in Eleme. Chief Joe Dada, the traditional ruler of Okori Onne Community in his comment blessed God for King Appolus Chu. His words: “This is not the first time, he has been doing this time without number, may this God who has brought him to Eleme and Okori people continue to bless him.” Another indigene of Eleme, Chief Awala Osaro Ogbu, the traditional ruler of Okori Ogale said: “I also want to sincerely thank King Dr. Amb. Appolus Chu, for remembering his people, it is not easy in this period of Covid-19 and he has deemed it necessary to have his people at heart, this assistance will go a long way to assist our women in farming.” On her part, Chief (Mrs.) Roselyn Osaro Oluji of Okori Akpajo said: “He did not just think about himself and his family alone, but has decided to remember the women of Okori in Akpajo, that while we stay at home, we should not beg for food, we should eat pending when God will row away the Coronavirus pandemic, and we are saying thank you and may this good Lord continue to bless you and your family, wherever he goes may the spirit of God go with him, because he has a heart of giving, heaven will open over him and no door will close against him, in fact, the world is yet to see what God will do in his life and for his family. Chief Chamberlain O. Kenwi the community head of Egbere eta Okori Alesa could not conceal his excitement as he said, “Sincerely we want to thank you, God should bless you. You know there are two things in life, for you to have and for you to give so God gave you the grace to have and also to give, we appreciate you.” Chief Kenneth Keke, the Nyime eta Okori Alesa traditional ruler also spoke saying, “His Royal Highness, Amb. Dr. Appolus Chu has deemed it necessary to come to our aid, knowing that the people are in a state of isolation in this period of Covid-19”. In his words: “we want to appreciate him if not for anything, because of the farming season which he has provided funds to enable the people farm”. Another beneficiary, Mrs. Charity Osaro said: “What King Appolus Chu has done today has beaten my imagination, I have not seen any king in Eleme land do such a thing. The clothes we are putting on, he bought them for us, he never forgets us, may God bless him and his family.” Chief Sunday Goya Ollor, the community head of Okori Ebubu had this to say: Thanks be to God Almighty for His Royal Highness, Appolus Chu for remembering his people in a time like this, especially the aspect of the farming season. Mr. Elis Olaka Chindo said: “On behalf of the chiefs and elders of Okori Alode community we like to express our heartfelt gratitude for what His Royal Highness, Chief Dr. Appolus Chu has given our women today. I will call him, the Emere Ona-ona of Eleme land.