In support of the government effort to curb the spread of the deadly Coronavirus pandemic, and in making living easier for the masses, a non-governmental organisation, Herbert Onyewumbu Wiwge (HOW) Foundation, has put smiles on the faces of thousands of people in some communities in River State. The foundation recently extended hands of help in form of foodstuffs and other relief palliatives to several homes, families, and communities in the state, as part of its complementary efforts to alleviate the mounting effects of the lockdown and restrictions measures adopted by the Rivers State Government to checkmate the spread of COVID-19. The foundation’s activities in the state are basically to alleviate the effects of the lockdown, and by extension, aid the underprivileged people in the state to stay home as the lockdown begins. The foundation’s CEO, Ms. Antonia Ally, made it known to the people of Isiokpo community and its environs that the NGO’s decision was to spread love and alleviate the effects of the lockdown on the people of Rivers State in general, and to connect with the mission statement of the non-profitable organisation. According to her, the foundation had been feeding several homes and indigents in Lagos State for weeks and had now decided to extend the novel gesture to the people of Isiokpo community and its environs. “We believe that majority of those that are alive today have never experienced a pandemic, and to cushion the effects of the lockdown occasioned by COVID-19, the HOW Foundation had made available palliatives to the people of Isokpo and its neighbouring communities in River State,” she said. The founder of the foundation, Mr. Wigwe, also added that the serial distribution of foodstuffs to people was a conscious plan to tackle the post-pandemic effects. He said a lot of businesses had been badly affected and economies disrupted, and as a foundation they had come to the aid of the people and assist Isokpo community by targeting the households with the distribution of our food relief materials. His Majesty, Blessing Wagor, the Nye Nwe Ali of Isiokpo community, thanked the foundation, especially the founder, Herbert Wigwe. “He is a good man who remembered the people of our community in this troubled period of hunger, and he has also promised that the palliatives will be shared to all the families in the community with the help of our council chiefs,” he said. In his remarks, Chief Wobodo Amadi, Chairman Isiokpo Council of Chiefs, added a thankful prayer for the founder of the foundation and said, “those who remember to feed the needy in this deadly pandemic period deserve more blessing and as he (Herbert Wigwe) is feeding us, God won’t let him, his family and the entire team to be hungry, God will continue to protect you all, thank you.” The foundation has been changing and shaping the lives of many with their focus and three major agenda that consist of health, education, and empowerment, all of which have formed the fulcrum on which the NGO designs its programmes and activities to ensure that they make positive and measurable impacts to be made these specific areas. The foundation has over the years been fighting malaria and prostate cancer with massive awareness to eradicate the health challenges across the country.