The Nigerian blockbuster sequel, “Living in Bondage: Breaking Free”, is set to premiere on American streaming platform, Netflix. Diaspora viewers now have the opportunity to see the epic movie, writes Ferdinand Ekechukwu The first Nigerian film on Netflix appeared in 2015. Now, more Nigerian content are making their way onto the American Streaming platform. The latest is Play Network’s multiple award-winning feature film, “Living in Bondage: Breaking Free,” a sequel to the 1992 Nollywood classic, “Living in Bondage”. The much talked about thriller is billed to premiere on the streaming platform this month of May alongside four other Nollywood titles as confirmed by Filmone Distribution. Play Network Africa, the producers of this sequel made the announcement on its Instagram page: “It is official! Counting down the days… Follow @playnetworkstudios to be the first to find out when it drops! #LivingInBondageOnNetflix,” the caption reads. Cinema viewers nationwide were giving an opportunity in February to see the film again on the big screen for three days before making it available on the streaming platform. The Executive Producer of the movie, Charles Okpaleke gave the Netflix hint on his Instagram handle while responding to a follower who asked him about his plans to bring this Nigerian thriller to diaspora viewers, by simply saying, “Very, very soon.” It is expected that the film will garner massive viewership when it finally arrives on Netflix; though it is yet to be confirmed the particular date the movie will start showing. The original film followed Andy Okeke, a married man who sacrifices his wife for wealth due to his dissatisfaction with his financial status. Directed by Ramsey Nouah, the 2019 sequel tells the story of Nnamdi Okeke, Andy Okeke’s son whose quest for the lavish life takes him down the same questionable path his father took. Written by Nicole Asinugo and C.J. Obasi, it features familiar faces like Kenneth Okonkwo, Bob-Manuel Udokwu, and Kanayo O. Kanayo. New additions include Ramsey Nouah, Enyinna Nwigwe, Nancy Isime, Munachi Abii and Swanky JKA, who were only three months old when the first movie came out. It opened in theatres on November 8, 2019, with N25.8 million and quickly grossed N48.6 million within seven days. At over N163 million, it is now one of the highest-grossing Nigerian films of all time. At the 2020 Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCA), the film won eight awards from eleven nominations. Ramsey Nouah, who also made his directional debut with the movie, went home with the award for Best Director. T