Chuks Okocha in Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has released its timetable for the election of its governorship candidate in Ondo State. According to the National Organising Secretary of PDP, Mr. Austin Akobundu, the sales of expression of interest and the governorship forms would commence on June 22 while the last date for the return of completed forms is June 26, which would be followed by the screening of aspirants from July 2. The ward congresses to elect a three man ad-hoc ward delegates is slated for July 8. The ward congresses appeal if any is slated for July 13. The local government congresses to elect national delegates are slated for July 15 and the local government appeal would take place on July 18 and the publication of the list of delegates would take place on July 20. The election or nomination of the party’s governorship candidate is slated for July 22 and July 23 and the appeal on the outcome, if any, would take place on July 24. The guideline also showed that the certification of the deputy governorship candidate by the National Working Committee of the party would take place on July 27 while July 28 was the last day to submit the name of the governorship candidate to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), adding that the last date for withdrawal and replacement of candidates is on August 18 The party said that the last date for submission of agents names of local government officers to INEC is September 24, while election will take place on October 10. For Edo State, the party said that the last day for the submission of the completed governorship forms is June 12. The screening exercise for all those that completed and returned the governorship forms, according to the party, would take place on June 4, while the appeal for those that are dissatisfied with the screening is also June 4. The National Organising Secretary of the PDP stated further that the ward elections to elect three ad-hoc delegates would take place on June 9 and the appeal for those dissatisfied with the outcome of the process is slated for June 12. In the same manner, Colonel Akobundu (rtd) said that election of local government delegates to pick national delegates that would elect the governorship candidate of the party would be on June 16 and the appeal was slated for June 19. According to him, the election of the party’s governorship candidate would take place between June 23 and June 24, any appeal arising from it would be on June 26. The party said the date for the submission of the name of the governorship candidate to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) would take place on July 13, while the last date for the submission of local government agents to INEC is September 1, 2020 and the date of election is September 19.