SOCIETY WATCH With Adebayo Adeoye There’s a building under construction behind Ikoyi Baptist Church—along MacDonald Road, Ikoyi, Lagos. The edifice is exceptional in stateliness and scale, and definitely going to top many house-ranking lists in the year 2020, when it is finished. This beauty of a residence has been purported to be the retirement home of Akwa Ibom Governor, Emmanuel Udom. Implications follow. Governor Emmanuel Udom has never pretended to be anything less than regal in cash matters. From the very beginning, he has favoured the acquisition and enjoyment of the finer things of life over the blemished, broken things that other folks have to deal with. Notwithstanding, the augustness of his alleged Ikoyi retirement home is on a higher scale than all that came before. According to Media bees, the intention of Governor Udom is to retreat into the comfort of this Ikoyi House when the curtains close on his regime in 2023. As a result, they say that the labourers are working 25 hours every day to make sure that the beauty is ready, possibly before the year runs out. Moreover, the Governor is reportedly playing the part of a committed home builder, as he always finds time on his busy daily schedule to visit and supervise. Again, it must be stressed that Governor Emmanuel Udom is not a lazy laissez-faire person, not by any stretch of the term. However, he’s a firm advocate of colour, and has never indulged a grey or beige life. Consider the burial ceremony of his late father, Elder Gabriel Emmanuel Nkanang. This was one of the highlights of February, as the Elder was sent off by the ups-and-ups of high society. The luxury of his graveside, it is said, is a lesson in context for those who say we take nothing to the grave. The conclusion of the matter: it makes sense for Governor Udom to seek a Fortress of Solitude in Lagos, away from his State of origin. Much of his banking career (first in Diamond Bank, and then Zenith Bank) was in Lagos. So, yes.
To every labour there is a reward. After years of serving his state and nation, a fine house in a fine neighbourhood will not kill Governor Emmanuel Udom.