Omololu Ogunmade in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari thursday tasked members of the armed forces not to be caught in the web of complacency in the battle against Boko Haram, asking them to end the menace of the terrorists in the North-east. Speaking while hosting Yobe State Governor, Alhaji Mai Mala Buni, in the State House, Abuja, Buhari warned the troops against complacency in the defence of the nation’s territory, saying they must ensure that terrorists no longer find any part of the region habitable. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, said the president gave the charge while receiving a briefing from the governor on the security situation in his state. According to him, the president observed that such resolve was necessary for sustainable peace and development in the region. Adesina also said Buhari added that such sustainable peace would enhance farming and other socio-economic activities in the North-east. He further said the president tasked the governor to always mobilise community support for the military with a view to encouraging intelligence gathering. “He (Buhari) expressed the belief that the health and well-being of the nation depends largely on its ability to feed itself, and agricultural production is key. “President Buhari, however, tasked Yobe State Governor to continuously mobilise community support for the military operations, saying intelligence sharing and the synergy between law enforcement agencies and the civil populace are critical towards achieving the objectives,” Adesina said. He added that the president charged the troops to be vigilant and sustain ongoing counter-insurgency operations on both the shores of Lake Chad as well as the entire North-east, and consequently, eliminate Boko Haram. According to Adesina, Buhari noted with satisfaction what he described as the giant strides of the armed forces in the fight against insurgency, urging them not to relent in the battle against the insurgents. He said the governor in his briefing expressed appreciation to the federal government “for the decisive and proactive measures being employed in the renewed onslaught against the Boko Haram terrorists.” He also said Buni noted the significant achievements recorded by the military in its efforts to contain activities of the terrorists, whom he said had been in disarray since the recent operations by the Chadian military. “Governor Buni informed the president that if the tempo is maintained, Boko Haram will soon become history,” Adesina added.