*Orders Gernot Rohr’s contract sealed within one week Duro Ikhazuagbe As major football leagues around the world are battling to either cancel their 2019/2020 season or play behind closed doors to complete their fixtures due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has voted for the NPFL and other leagues in the country to run their full courses once government finds it expedient for sports to return. At its Executive Committee meeting which held by video conference last Thursday, the NFF Board mandated its Football Committee to liaise with the heads of the various Leagues (Nigeria Professional Football League; Nigeria National League; Nigeria Women Football League and; Nigeria Nation-wide League One) and other important stakeholders on the return of the domestic football season. “This however is subject to announcement by the Federal Government on resumption of football and other sporting activities in the country,” stressed the communique issued at the end of the board meeting. The NFF board meeting commended the proactive and comprehensive policies, strategies and measures instituted by the Federal Government to tackle the coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) that has left pain and sorrow in most nations of the world in the past couple of months. It equally praised the Federal Ministry of Health, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), all first responders and all other public health workers in the frontline for their efforts in reducing community transmission and saving lives. The Board acknowledged the advice of world football-governing body, FIFA on how the $500,000 relief fund sent to the NFF, among other FIFA monies available to the NFF, should be spent. During the League Management Company’s online conference with NPFL clubs and other major stakeholders penultimate week, the league organizers had listed four options before them on how to end the season if the pandemic persists. One of the options was to complete the fixtures as soon as government finds the situation conducive for sports to return. The Executive Committee also mandated the General Secretary of the federation, Dr Mohammed Sanusi, to liaise with the Super Eagles’ Technical Adviser, Mr. Gernot Rohr with a view to concluding all matters around Mr. Rohr’s new contract within the next one week.