Has Senator Buruji Kashamu now eaten the proverbial humble pie? This is the question on the lips of many who are familiar with political developments in Ogun State. It is a fact that the crisis rocking the Peoples’ Democratic Party, PDP, in the state has taken a new twist and it is not favourable to Kashamu. It was gathered that, since Kashamu lost control of the party, following the exit of the party Chairman, Chief Bayo Dayo, his fans have allegedly pitched their tent with his main rival in the party, Ladi Adebutu. Both Kashamu and Adebutu have been at each other’s jugular over the control of the party.
It was also gathered that, members of the state executive committee led by the Secretary, Mr Semiu Sodipo, had since dumped the Kashamu group and joined forces with the Adebutu faction. Out of the 14-member executive committee, 13 belong to the Adebutu group, while the Kashamu camp is left with only the Assistant Auditor, a situation that suggests that the Adebutu group has taken over the party structure in the state.
A source revealed that going by the development, Adebutu is literally on his bended knees, seeking truce that he had earlier kicked against. ‘’Buruji is holding on to the last straw and he has to eat the humble pie to save his political career from crumbling before his eyes,’’ the source disclosed. The source added that, for eight years, the Kashamu faction had been in total control with the support of court judgments.
According to the source, “As far back as 2010, Senator Buruji Kashamu had clashed with former President Olusegun Obasanjo over the choice of the chairman, Senator Dipo Odujurin, while he sponsored Bayo Dayo.
“There was litigation over the contest. At last, the court declared Dayo as the authentic chairman. That was how he took over the control of the party. “The battle over the soul of the party is an extension of the crisis that engulfed the PDP, prior to the 2011 general election. “
Former Governor Gbenga Daniel was edged out of the party by Kashamu, who took over the structure. Daniel was forced to seek political relevance by floating a new party, the Peoples’ Party of Nigeria, PPN, for his supporters to contest.”
It will be recalled that Kashamu is not in the good books of the Prince Uche Secondus-led NWC. He was suspended in 2017 and later expelled in 2018 over what the party described as anti-party activities. But the expulsion could not take effect as Kashamu sought protection from the court. His suspension was quashed by the court. The judgment emboldened him to contest for the governorship election in 2019. He emerged as the governorship candidate of the PDP, despite the stiff resistance from the NWC. The party rejected him as its candidate and accused him of planning to destabilise the party. Thus, Adebutu emerged as its authentic candidate. “Kashamu never purchased the PDP nomination paper form and never participated in our governorship primary or in any process related to the nomination of the governorship candidate of our party or any position whatsoever,” a source said. Thus, Adebutu emerged at the governorship primary or in any process related to the nomination of the governorship candidate of our party or any position whatsoever”