They say that misfortune is a family of troubles that visits in quick succession. The Honourable Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, is essentially playing host to this brood of troubles. In the latest episode of this, it is being alleged that the Honourable Speaker is allegedly involved in a scam venture, the result of which is the dispensation of 10 million to his wife, on a monthly basis, since 2018. Honourable Mudashiru Obasa has been in the nets of accusation for quite a while now. While he is evidently not the most beloved of the Lagos State House of Lawmakers, recent events indicate that there is very little love lost between him and those out to get him.
This scandal involving his third wife is based on a document that allegedly details Obasa’s approval of the 10 million monthly payment to the wives of the lawmakers – who are then supposed to use these funds for a grassroots support programme. In essence, the wives of the lawmakers – under the leadership of the wife of Honourable Obasa – would manage and extend this gender inclusiveness scheme across the 40 constituencies of Lagos State. The alleged reasoning behind selecting the wives of the lawmakers is that they are more intimately touched by the feelings of socio-economic and political inequalities. Who else to head this group but the wife of the boss? Curiously, several of the wives of the lawmakers have decried their alleged involvement in the scheme. Reportedly, they have not sniffed any such amount, except for the 100,000 they get for travel and entertainment expenses whenever they congregate. Folks have been quick to point out that it is the year 2020, and a scheme that was approved in 2018 and has squeezed out 10 million monthly, must have garnered at least 250 million by now. In other words, Obasa is accused of having looted a quarter of a billion under the guise of the womenfolk socio-economic and political liberty. In the meantime, there’s still the accusation that Honourable Obasa squeezes 17 million monthly from public funds to maintain his house, guesthouses and office. Is someone after the Honourable Speaker, or something else is going on?