Longer than most people can remember, the Odu’A Investment Group has been a symbol of the collaborative corporate and business might of the South-West. This symbol has grown in recent times and extended its branches to cover manufacturing, communications and telecom, and a host of others. At the end of the virtual meeting of some of its leaders on May the 7th, it is evident that the Odu’A Investment Group is set to take things to the next level. One of the highlights of the meeting was the inauguration of the Board of O’dua Investment Limited. This was set into action by the South-West Governors’ Forum, headed by Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, Governor of Ondo State—who doubles as the Forum’s Chairman. The newly inaugurated Board members, one from each State, include Dr. Lawrence Olusegun Aina (to serve as Chairman), and Segun Olujobi, Tola Kasali, Chief Segun Ojo, Seeni Adio (Esq SAN), and Otunba Bimbo Ashiru. Although the Odu’A Group has been thought to be the clothing of a cultural-cum-political group, the recent appointment of these technocrats should place a lid over all these assumptions. Bimbo Ashiru’s presence itself speaks volumes of the Group’s intentions and the width of their expectations. Otunba Bimbo Ashiru is one of the heavyweights in the ranks of successful individuals of Ijebu-Ode founding. His endeavours in the business world have earned him plaques and possibly a whole wall in the Half of Management Fame. While others floundered from one career path to another, Otunba plied the corporate scene with grace, with an experienced gait over a stretch of over two decades. The banking sector, compared to others, has more intimately felt Ashiru. However, from heading Private Banking at Stanbic IBTC Bank, to being Head of the Public Sector, the man has shown diligence, commitment and a knack for bosshood. Which explains the countless trophies and medals of recognition at state, national and corporate levels. With Otunba Bimbo Ashiru—alongside the others newly inaugurated—on board, the Odu’A Investment Group is announcing its intentions to reach new heights.