Sonnie Ekwowusi writes that the family is the social compass that holds the world together “Stay-safe, Stay-at-home”, “Stay away from COVID-19 by staying-at-home”. These coronavirus catchphrases and other similar ones constantly dominate the socio-political space all over the world today. They also underline the importance of the family institution as a fundamental pillar of society. There is no place like home. Everything may seem to be collapsing; your bank account may be empty; it may appear as if you have reached the end of the tether, but do not worry. Your resting place is your home. Whether it is a ramshackle in the remotest village in Africa or an imposing skyscraper, your home is your home. And now that the economy, schools, banks, International Financial institutions – World Bank, International Monetary Fund (IMF) and others, United Nations, Stock Exchange, Executive, Legislature, Judiciary, Internet, social media, advancements in science, technology, economic development, social organization are failing modern man he is invariably and irresistibly seeking and finding protection and succour in his home. So much fuss about the economy. But we forget that there is a correction between family growth and economic growth. The economy needs healthy family, honest and responsible workforce to sustain it. Come to think of it, the economy does not manufacture honest work force, good investors or economists or financiers and others to sustain it. Honest work force, good investors or economists, financiers and others are products of the family. Consequently family failure easily translates to decline in productivity, loss of profit and may even lead to complete economic failure. Therefore the family, if you like, is that social compass that holds the world together. The family institution is the very key institution upon which the human society lays its claim to civilization. It is therefore a big paradox that the family institution is systematically being whittled down or destroyed today. Imperiling the family is tantamount to imperiling human civilization. For example, in Africa the family institution is an authentic safety net that caters for the well-being of the individual. The African communalism (notably propounded by the late University of Ibadan Emeritus Professor Jacob Festus Ade-Ajayi) or the African communal spirit of sharing or the spirit of egbe belu ugo belu (The spirit of live-and-let-live) is a veritable social-safety system embedded with the social security for the socialization and improvement of the well-being of the individual. A person born into an African family depends on his/her family for virtually everything. Unlike in the West where children are wont to dispatch their old parents to the Old People’s Homes, the African oldies, whether they are still productive or not, always have their rightful places in the family where they are continually respected, revered and protected. But unfortunately what we have been witnessing in Africa, Nigeria inclusive, over the years is a profound systematic destruction of the African families especially by the United Nations Population Funds (UNFPA), Marie Stopes International abortion clinics, Cuttmacher Institute and others. In Nigeria, the multi-billion local and foreign organizations which have ceaselessly been in the vanguard of mowing down human capital are: United Nations Population Funds (UNFPA), Marie Stopes International abortion clinics, Cuttmacher Institute, Family Health International (FHI), International Women’s Health Coalition (IWHC), Population Services International (PSI), International Consortium of Medical Abortion (ICMA), Union for African Population Studies (UAPS), Population Reference Bureau (PRB), Planned Parenthood Federation of Nigeria, (PPFN), Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) funded by American multi-billionaire Bill Gates and others. You may be aware that between 1942 and 1943 a collection of some of the literary works of English author Clive Staples Lewis (C.S Lewis, 1898–1963,) including his The Screw Tape Letters and the first series of his Broadcast Talks were published and later incorporated into his other works such as Mere Christianity, Perelandra, that Hideous Strength (these last two were part of his Ransom Trilogy), and The Abolition of Man. You will recall that by late March 2020 an excerpt purportedly culled from C. S. Lewis’ The Screw Tape Letters was circulating on the social media. At that time many social media warriors and social media activists found the purported excerpt interesting. The purported excerpt involved an exchange between Satan and Jesus Christ. The exchange allegedly occurred in the aftermath of a pandemic similar to COVID-19 in the time of C.S Lewis. Some deny that the excerpt was culled from C.S Lewis’ The Screw Tape Letters. Nevertheless, please permit me to reproduce the said except, if not for anything, for the purpose of buttressing our argument in this piece. Whereas Satan had boasted that he would cause confusion and anxiety in the world and shut down businesses and places of worship during a pandemic similar to COVID-19 that occurred in the time of C.S Lewis, Jesus Christ promised that he will restore and strengthen the family unit during that pandemic time. Below is the full exchange between Satan and Jesus. Satan: “I will cause anxiety, fear and panic. I will shut down business, schools, places of worship, and sports events. I will cause economic turmoil”. Jesus: “I will bring together neighbours, restore the family unit, I will bring dinner back to the kitchen table. I will help people slow down their lives and appreciate what really matters. I will teach my children to rely on me and not the world. I will teach my children to trust me and not their money and material resources”. Whether you choose to believe or disbelieve the aforesaid exchange, one incontrovertible truth today is that the coronavirus scourge has created anxiety, fear and panic in the minds of so many people. It has also led to the shutting of down of businesses, schools, places of worship and sports events. Consequently many are now seeking protection in their various homes. As we speak, many parents are not only happily reunited with their children at their various homes they are also forging the closely-knit family ties and communal bonds which were inconceivable prior to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. But unfortunately speculations are rife today that under the pretext of preventing people from contracting the dreaded coronavirus infection Bill Gates and Dr. Anthony Fauci have rolled out the Fauci-Gates Moderna Vaccine-MNA-1273 which gradually would lead to the death of the person vaccinated with the vaccine, and, by extension on the long run would lead to the destruction of the family. Should we treat these speculations with levity? No. Why? Because both Bill Gates and Dr. Fauci have ceaselessly been advocating that there should not be too many human beings on earth. Like eugenic Margaret Sanger, Bill Gates and Fauci advocate that society should rid itself of “multiplication of bad stock” of human beings through birth control, abortion and eugenic sterilization of women. Quote
The family institution is the very key institution upon which the human society lays its claim to civilization