Chinedu Eze
Siemens Energy Limited said it has continued to provide support Nigeria’s energy sector.
Siemens, a leading service provider for the energy industry said it remains committed to supporting Nigeria’s oil and gas sector in this critical time. “Through this pandemic Siemens Field Service Engineers continue to deliver solutions to customers and partners in industries catering to vital infrastructure, providing them with much needed technical support.
“The Field Service Engineers ensure that customers’ plants and sites keep running uninterrupted, for the lights in all our customer locations nationwide,” the company said in a statement. Speaking on the company’s commitment to keeping the lights on in Nigeria, Vice President, Service & Digital, Siemens Energy Limited, Seun Suleiman said, “It’ is amazing to share with you the business advantage of localising the Field Ops organisation in Nigeria especially with the pandemic of COVID-19. “We have been able to successfully meet most of our customer field service interventions without any hindrance and these FSRs have been fully supported via in-country Tier 1 technical support. “This has significantly kept us in operation despite the suspension of international flights in Nigeria and multiple curfews imposed in Lagos & Port Harcourt. “We are immensely proud of our frontline employees working hard on all our customers’ sites to keep the lights on for millions of Nigerians during these difficult times.” Also commenting, the Head Business Development, Siemens Energy Limited, Oladayo Orolu highlighted the importance of essential utilities running during this period,
“In these challenging times, it is important we keep the lights on to power essential utilities that keep our homes and hospitals conducive, powered and safe. “As we support our customers and work to keep Nigeria powered, we continue to prioritise the health and safety of our employees, cooperating with the relevant public and health authorities,” it added.