The federal government has been urged to put in place modalities that would sustain e-learning beyond the COVID-19 period. The Tutor General/Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Education District III, Dr. Mrs. Olufolayimika Abiose Ayandele offered this advice in Lagos, recently. According to her, the COVID-19 pandemic came as a blessing in disguise and drew attention to prospects that was previously ignored. Ayandele said the online teaching has assisted teachers in district III to connect actively with students despite school closure. “We have built user-friendly and customised access-controlled e-platforms for learning to minimise the impact of mental idleness or boredom, which is one of the perils of this lockdown on schools,” she said. She stated that teachers in District III have adopted new ways of teaching through the Interactive Boards and Simulated Recorded Class Environment. (IBSRC). She said that the process has also afforded parents and their children to be in the same chat room. ”I can tell you that our students feel excited with the advent of e-learning, initiated by the director/principal of schools. Another advantage of this new dawn is the emergence of an e-library that will serve as a resource now and in the future. “Our teachers have, with great zeal and optimism, adopted a new technological approach to teaching and have become familiar with technological tools such as Zoom, Edmodo, Google Classroom, Telegram, Whatsapp, Webex, Free conference and other online avenues. “This should be sustained, recorded knowledge is priceless and we have come to appreciate this with the COVID-19 pandemic,” she said. The Permanent Secretary also commended the efforts of the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu in promoting the e-learning initiative through multiple media. This include, radio, TV, and the internet “Lagos state has also worked on a technology device loaded with the Nigerian curriculum that the students can use while at home. This way, they will be able to continue learning, test themselves, and send answers to teachers who are also equipped with the device,” she said.