By Adibe Emenyonu The Edo State Government has announced the discharge of two more COVID-19 patients, who have tested negative twice for the virus and cleared from the state’s isolation centres. The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, who disclosed this in a statement, charged all residents to support the state government efforts at stemming the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic by complying with all laid down directives. Obaseki said, “My dear good people of Edo State, we have just discharged two more COVID-19 patients after they tested negative twice for the virus. This brings the number of patients successfully managed and discharged from our isolation facilities to 12. We seek your support as we continue to make efforts to contain the spread of the virus.” Meanwhile, Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, noted that Edo has recorded 65 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and four deaths, adding that the state has so far collected 625 samples for testing, out of which 423 have tested negative. According to him, while the state had recorded 338 persons of interest (POIs) and line listed 666 contacts, 113 POIs and 380 contacts have been cleared after completing the compulsory 14-day follow up and tested negative. He disclosed that the 65 confirmed cases were recorded in Oredo (39), Esan West (4), Egor (7), Ovia North East (6), Ikpoba-Okha (4), Uhunmwode (2), Etsako Central (1), Esan South East (1) and Akoko-Edo (1) Local Government Areas (LGAs). The commissioner who said the state’s improved efforts at screening and testing were responsible for the rising number of confirmed cases, noted that Edo has screened over 85, 104 residents cut across the 18 LGAs and 192 wards of the state. Okundia, however, reassured that the remaining cases that were yet to be discharged are on active treatment at various isolation centres in the state and are responding well to treatment. The commissioner who identified screening and testing as essential in the government’s efforts at containing the pandemic noted, “The Edo State Government encourages all residents with symptoms of the disease to come out for screening, testing and treatment as early detection is key to containing the virus. When detected early, a patient’s chance for survival increases. “We also urge you to comply with all government directives, aimed at ensuring the health and safety of all Edo people. Residents are advised to stay at home and observe social distancing guidelines and other precautionary measures against the spread of the disease, including regular handwashing with soap under running water and the use alcohol-based hand sanitisers. Cover your mouth and nose properly when sneezing and/or coughing. Also do well to report anyone with oversea travel history.”