In his bid to tame the threat and further transmission of the global pandemic of COVID-19 in Kano state, and promoting safer working environment for health workers, while joining hands with the federal government institutions, governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has donated Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs), cartons of hand sanitizer, boots, face masks, pump buckets, soaps, among others, to Dala Orthopedic Hospital, Kano. Other items donated to the hospital include hand gloves and other fumigating materials, all in an attempt to cleanse the facility environment and help the facility deal decisively with the pandemic. At a brief official presentation of all the items donated to the management of the hospital, Friday, governor Ganduje assured the Chief Medical Director Dr Muhammad Nuhu Salihu, that the state would continue to give its helping hand to the facility. “I am glad to inform you that, this federal government facility is performing wonderfully well, as far as healthcare delivery system is concerned. That is why we are always happy to push forward our assistance to the hospital,” he said. He said the state government “…is so much concerned about the hazardous nature of health workers responsibility in both state and federal facilities. So also in our private facilities. What we are bringing today are items that can help in protect your health workers from contracting the deadly disease.” Governor Ganduje urges for good and proper coordination between the state and the Hospital, adding that, “Without proper coordination between us we won’t be able to achieve much in this respect. Our system of coordination must be effective.” Ganduje ordered for general fumigation of the facility, which he directed the state Ministry of Environment, as the Commissioner of the ministry, Dr Kabiru Ibrahim Getso, was at the event during the presentation of the materials to the Orthopedic Hospital management. When the Commissioner said, “His Excellency the Governor directed us to go round and fumigate all health facilities in the state, among other public places. Here we are at the federal government facility, Dala Orthopedic Hospital.