By Omolabake Fasogbon. Park Vega, the much talked about Water Park sited in Delta State, has started gathering momentum ahead of its official launch. Rated to be the largest water park in West Africa, the park boasts internationally recognised features and standard facilities of a water park that ranks it matchless. These include: multiple water slides for adults and children, wave pools and splash pad, amongst others. The park has continued to attract commendation from both local and international players, as well as from key stakeholders in the global tourism industry. In his remarks, Coordinator Membership, International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions (IAAPA), Ignace Woinin, hailed the level of ingenuity and expertise that went to the construction of the park. “We are impressed by your dedication to pioneering the attraction industry in Western Africa,” he said. While on a courtesy visit to the management of the park, elated indigenes of Agbor community in Delta state appreciated the firm for siting the project in the community which they said will help to boost local economy and empower the host community. Spokesman of the community, Emmanuel Tibi, said: “We are happy that this project was sited in our community and we thank Park Vega Water Park for this initiative. For our immediate community, Agbor Kingdom, Ika South, Delta State, and Nigeria as a whole, this is a great investment. An investment of this nature will open up the economy of this community and the country as a whole. We expect this hospitality facility to attract people from across the globe to Nigeria with forex. “We equally hope that our sons and daughters who are in the diaspora will be proud to come back home as a result of the development that the waterpark will bring.” Public Relations Officer of Park Vega Water Park, Anthony Elikene, stated that testimonies and endorsements pouring in for the project further indicated tourist penchant for quality. He added the park was thought of to offer tourists the best experience they can ever imagined. “One of the salient messages Park Vega is sending is that Nigerians need not travel out of the country to experience world-class waterpark facilities. They deserve the best-in-class service that we are offering. “The focus of the project was not to build the largest waterpark in the sub-region, but to offer Nigerians and indeed West Africans the highest quality they can get anywhere in the world. This is a positive insight to Nigeria as it aspires to build its tourism sector and diversify the economy.” “When completed and open for public patronage, the park promises families and their loved ones a happy memory as they bond and share their experiences,”Elikene assured.