By Emmanuel Ugwu The Governor of Abia State, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu, Friday said that his mission to put the state on higher pedestal of development remained on course and yielding visible results. He made this known in his message to the people of Abia to mark the first anniversary of his second term and fifth anniversary of his ascendance to the post of governor of the state on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Ikpeazu, who was reelected for a second term last year, assured the people that his vision for a greater and economically strong Abia remains intact, adding that his total commitment to ‘the Abia dream’ has been reinvigorated. “I make bold to state that even in the face of daunting challenges, we have made tremendous progress in practically every facet of governance and evidence abound that we shall finish very strong in our quest to stabilize governance in our state,” he said. He said that strenuous efforts have been made to reverse the infrastructure deficit in the state. especially in the capital city of Umuahia and Aba, the commercial hub. Citing the main artery into the capital city, the state governor stated that the reconstruction of the first phase which had been completed by a high grade first is a beauty to the dual carriage way. He stated that his plan to give the state capital the desired aesthetic look would be fully implemented with a solid dual carriage way that would welcome visitors right from Ubakala junction off Enugu – Port Harcourt expressway into the heart of the capital city. The governor said that the road networks in Abia have started wearing new looks as several strategic roads have been completed, adding that: “Our people (can now) connect Eziukwu Road -Okigwe Road, something that has been impossible for several years.” He paid glowing tribute to the Aba business community “for their resilience and determination to keep our state on the map of economic development through private enterprise” even at this difficult period of the Covid-19 pandemic. Governor Ikpeazu thanked the people of the state for their patience and understanding over “the difficult decision to lock down the state and enforce several other measures designed to protect our people at a time like this” when the world is facing a pandemic. However, he challenged the people to, more than ever before, embrace agriculture as a viable and sustainable means of economic survival. “With the effects of Covid-19 which have shattered most economic forecasts on a global scale, we as a people must re-engineer our plans and look towards agriculture as a viable alternative,” he said. The governor promised that he would continue to do everything within his power to meet the financial commitments of his administration, including payment of workers’ salaries.