Martins Ifijeh As Nigeria, yesterday marked the annual children’s day, Nestle has restated its commitment to support the fight against malnutrition in the country. In a statement made available to THISDAY recently, the Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager, Nestle Nigeria, Mrs. Victoria Uwadoka said the firm recognises that children need the right nourishment and an active lifestyle hence its decision to always support in that regard. She said: “At Nestle Nigeria, we remain committed to helping children imbibe healthy habits early while enabling their parents and caregivers with nutritious food products and the right information to make healthier nutrition choices. “In the past three years, our company has launched unique products specifically adapted to the needs of children, including Cerelac Junior, Golden Morn, Maize and Soya, as well as Milo Ready to Drink, all fortified with micronutrients to meet the needs of pre-school and school age children. “In addition to these, we have also reached over 1.5 million children each year through the N4HK school-based programme and Milo School Sports Development Program. “To help children imbibe healthy habits including good nutrition, active lifestyles through adequate physical activity, good hygiene practices, and healthy hydration, over 200 teachers have been trained in Ogun State and the FCT in collaboration with the Nutrition Society of Nigeria and the Universal Basic Education Boards. Nestle also invested in enhancing the teaching and learning environment by renovating school facilities as well as by donating relevant education aid materials.” Speaking while receiving materials for the N4HK schools in Ogun State on behalf of the Ogun State SUBEB earlier in the academic year, the Board Secretary, Mr. Olalekan Kuye said, “Children are the future of Ogun State, so investing in them is investing in the future. I commend Nestle for the consistent work they are doing through the Nestlé for Healthier Kids Initiative”.