Seriki Adinoyi in Jos, Hammed Shittu in Ilorin, Emmanuel Ugwu in Umuahia, George Okoh in Makurdi and Segun Awofadeji in Gombe Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Lawan; First Lady, Mrs. Aisha Buhari and governors across the country have expressed commitment to the welfare and education of Children. In an address he delivered wednesday to mark this year’s Children Day celebration in Makurdi, the Governor of Benue State, Mr. Samuel Ortom, assured that his administration would continue to make massive investment in the educational sector in order to bequeath a secured future to children living in the state. He also stated that the ongoing upgrade of facilities in the public primary and secondary schools across the state would be sustained, adding that more customised furniture would be acquired for primary schools across the state, in addition to the 35,000 customised desks and chairs recently distributed to the schools. On his part, the Kwara State Governor, Mr. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has reaffirmed his administration’s commitment to investments in girl child education as a way of encouraging gender inclusion in the state. A statement issued yesterday in Ilorin to commemorate this year World Children’s Day celebrations signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Rafiu Ajakaye, said: “We have given the girl child a bragging right to say that her state, Kwara, holds the ace on the African continent in terms of women inclusion in governance. “Our policy is to ensure that no child is left behind or denied every right and privileges to compete with their peers.” On his part, Governor of Gombe State, Mr. Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, used the 2020 Children Day Celebration to reiterate that his administration’s commitment to improving children’s wellbeing and sound education for a brighter future. “To build a better tomorrow, we must build our children. Therefore, I wish to reiterate our total commitment to your welfare and also to acknowledge your importance as the future and essence of our dear state and nation,” the governor said, according to a statement issued by the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Publicity, Mr. Ismaila Uba Misilli. Also, Plateau State Governor, Mr. Simon Lalong, stated yesterday that children deserved all the love, care and protection available to prepare them for their future responsibilities as the leaders of tomorrow. Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, has called on children to rise up to the challenges imposed by the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has “altered the way we live.” On her part, the First Lady, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, has urged children in the country to take online learning seriously. Aisha, in a message to commemorate the 2020 International Children’s Day, said that the theme for this year celebration, which is “Promoting Girl-Child Education for Sustainable Development,” meant that “we cannot rest on our oars. We must ensure that girl-child education is sustained in terms of quality and scale”. Lawan has also felicitated with Nigerian children on the occasion of the 2020 Children’s Day. Lawan said the surest route to a happy and fulfilling future for children was to provide them quality education and healthcare and to protect them against all forms of abuse. Obaseki has also assured that his administration would sustain the investment in children’s development by revamping the state’s basic education sector. Obaseki, who gave the assurance yesterday during the Children’s Day celebration, said the state government would continue to deploy innovative measures to ensure that children in the state are well prepared to face future challenges and opportunities.