By Emmanuel Ugwu As lockdown in Abia over COVID-19 pandemic continues, the Speaker of Abia State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Chinedum Orji, has called for adequate provision of palliatives and proper targeting of people that needed them most. He made the call while distributing relief materials to the vulnerable segment of his constituency in order to alleviate the hardships associated with the lockdown in the state. The Speaker, who was represented by the Clerk of the House, Mr. Johnpedro Irokansi, noted that it would amount to an exercise in futility if palliatives were given to people that didn’t need them while the real targets continue to suffer The palliatives were channeled through scores of churches, mosques, charity homes, hospitals, all located within Umuahia Central State constituency, which the Speaker represents. Some of the beneficiaries included the Abia State Specialist Hospital and Diagnostic Centre, Amachara, Federal Medical Centre Chapel, Umuahia, St. Vincent De Paul Centre for the Mentally and Physically Challenged, Umuafai Ndume, School for the Blind, Afara, Agape Charity Home for Children, Ubakala, Motherless Babies Home, Ahiaeke, among others. He expressed confidence in the ability of religious organisations and charity homes to take the donated materials right to the intended targets without parochial considerations like political party affiliation. He also urged all Abians not to get tired of adhering strictly to the guidelines issued by as part of efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. He gave the advice in a statement made available to journalists in Umuahia, saying that the Coronavirus had become a global reality requiring the cooperation of everyone to prevent, manage and control it. “The Coronavirus is a new reality worldwide but it can be defeated as long as citizens comply with directives from government and follow all the guidelines issued with regard to it. “At the House of Assembly, we have followed up with the procedures put in place by the State Government and are satisfied with them. It is now for all Abians to ensure they play by the rules,” he said.