Vice Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Peter Obi, has taken his COVID-19 intervention to Abia and Imo states. Apart from distributing relief materials worth millions of naira to two hospitals in each of the states, he reaffirmed his readiness to support the poor, the vulnerable and the health workers who were at the frontline of the fight against the deadly virus. Obi who was represented by a team of delegates comprising former Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning, Anambra State, Prof. Stella Okunna, former Commissioner for Information, Anambra State, Chief Joe Martins Dike, former Commissioner for Housing, Anambra State, Chief Patrick Nky Obi and his Special Adviser, Mr. Valentine Obienyem, encouraged the hospitals and their health workers to continue to give in their best in delivering good health to the public, especially in this time of global pandemic. Each of the four hospitals received relief materials worth about N2 million, namely: a carton of 2000 face masks, eight cartons of hand gloves (8000 pieces), four cartons of sanitisers (200 big containers of 500mls each) and eight big cartons of paracetamol. The beneficiaries included Holy Rosary Hospital, Emekuku, Owerri, Imo State; Madonna Catholic Hospital, Umuahia; Our Savior’s Hospital and Maternity, Amainyi, Imo State and Methodist Hospital, Uzuakoli, Umuahia. Appreciating Obi, the Methodist Archbishop of Umuahia, Most Rev. Chibuzo Opoko, said Obi was a politician who upholds virtue and high moral standard; also noting that Obi was the kind of leader Nigeria needed, being a man who fears God and does not discriminate against people. “Mr. Peter Obi is the kind of politician Nigeria needs now. He is a man who upholds virtue and high moral standard. He has the fear of God and does not discriminate against anyone. Obi is a great gift to Nigeria and we will be happy as nation the day we realise it. I pray God to give him the opportunity to manifest his plans for this nation,” Opoko said. On behalf of the Catholic Bishop of Umuahia Diocese, Most Rev. Lucius Ugorji, the Hospital Administrator of Madonna Catholic Hospital, Afaraukwu, Umuahia, Rev. Fr. Anokwuru Christian Uche, promised that the donated materials would be judiciously used for the good of the health workers and the people in general. He prayed God to continue to lead Obi on to greater heights. In their respective expressions of appreciation, the Hospital Administrator of Holy Rosary Hospital, Emekuku, Imo State, Rev. Fr. Justin Okoro and the Hospital Chaplain, Our Savior’s Hospital and Maternity, Amainyi, Imo State, Ven Oliver Okeke, both showered praises on Obi for his benevolence. They prayed God to continue to protect Obi and bless his future endeavours.