Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi The Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, has said he has no apology for revealing that Chloroquine, Zithromax, Zinc and Vitamin C are used for the cure of Coronavirus as he was administered with the drugs while receiving treatment in isolation. He, however, explained that by revealing the drug used while in isolation, he was not encouraging self-medication by people who contracted the coronavirus disease. The governor, who was speaking while giving update on the situation of the coronavirus disease in the state yesterday, said the state medical team had used Chloroquine and Zithromax to cure him of the deadly virus. According to the governor, “I was a COVID-19 patient; I told the world and I have been asked to say how I got cured, and I told them how I got cured. I recommended that that should be done to other patients too. I have no apology for saying that I used Chloroquine, Zithromax, Zinc, Iron and Vitamin C to get cured. “However, it was God that cured me, and to me, it is better to take something rather than sit down and die. If you have symptoms of fever, you can take Chloroquine to cure it; if you have symptoms of infection, you can take Zithromax to cure it. “You do not need a doctor, but the doctors would prescribe the drugs to take; I didn’t take these things on my own, and I’m not recommending that people should use these drugs without the recommendation of their case managers.” The governor, who said it was a common knowledge that coronavirus had no vaccine or drugs, prayed God to heal all the patients in the state. He further stated that due to reactions from the social media on the recommendation of the drugs for COVID 19, he felt he should make certain clarifications concerning the misconception that trailed the news. “Pertaining what I said about the use of Chloroquine, Zinc, Zithromax and Vitamin C for the treatment of COVID-19 that I was misquoted, I was once a COVID-19 patient, and how did I get cured? I only made a recommendation and it is not a recommendation of the committee for COVID-19 in the state,” he added.