By Chiemelie Ezeobi An Inspector, Monday Gabriel with No 21 Police Mobile Force Squadron Abuja, Sunday ran amok and shot his colleagues, killing one and injuring others. The suspect who was on special duty in a federal government facility in Ikoyi, Lagos, ran amok and started shooting sporadically, Gabriel, who was said to have gone berserk following a disagreement with other members of his team, opened fire on them before hijacking their operational vehicle. He left his colleagues in a pool of their blood and drove straight to Akoka in Yaba where he attempted to access a compound but couldn’t. According to sources, the building had a metallic door and the policeman said to be attached to the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) again opened fire on the property to gain access. Residents said they were frightened at the sporadic sound of gunshots and took cover not knowing what was happening. Distress calls were made to the Bariga Police Division and the Rapid Response Squad (RRS), who deployed operatives to the scene and restrained the shooter. No fewer than 30 bullet holes were counted in the apartment, corridor and ceiling of the premises. Although he tried to escape, the hijacked vehicle ran into the gutter, which was where he was arrested by the police. From short videos obtained from residents, the cop was screaming incoherently, a development suggestive of a possible mental illness. He was heard alleging that some persons wanted to corrupt him and that he should be allowed to go home in the name of Jesus. Reacting to the incident, the state Police Spokesman, DSP Bala Elkana, said only one policeman, Sergeant Felix Okago, died from the gunshots. Elkana said: “In an attempt to escape, he took a patrol van and headed towards third mainland bridge, shooting as he was escaping. “He was intercepted by policemen from Bariga Division along Akoka, disarmed and handcuffed. The rifle and vehicle were recovered. “The corpse of the deceased Sergeant has been deposited in the mortuary for autopsy while the inspector was taken to police hospital for medical examination as he presented signs of mental depression. “The Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Bello, has directed the deputy commissioner of police in charge of investigation to take over the investigation. “The command deeply condoles with the family of the fallen colleague who paid the supreme price in service to his fatherland.”