By Adibe Emenyonu A pastor of the Believers’ Ministry Church Incorporated, Benin, one Otobong Emerson, was among suspects, paraded by the Edo State Police Command yesterday, for defiling siblings aged six, seven, nine and another minor aged 11. Edo State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP. Chidi Nwabazor, while parading the suspect, said he had confessed to the offence. Emerson, aged 48, while confessing to the crime said, after having carnal knowledge of the minors multiple times, he had to confess to his General Overseer for his deeds, adding that a spirit influenced him to do so. “After sleeping with them for several times, my conscience started judging me, so I went to confess to my G.O. I don’t know what pushed me. I don’t really know what is wrong with me, I really feel sober for my deed.” In another development, the Command also paraded one Patrick Ayesan, aged 38, for having carnal knowledge and impregnating his 18 years old daughter. The suspect made confessional statement to the offence, and thereafter, was charged to court and was consequently sentenced to 10 years imprisonment while his daughter is currently with the state Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development. He confessed that he had been sleeping with his daughter since January 2020, adding that he got into it whenever the urge for sex comes. He disclosed that mother of the girl was no more with him, hence he stayed with his daughter at Okosa community, Iguobasuwa, Ovia South-west Local Government Area of the state. He confessed, “ I only sleep with her when my body moves, and started sleeping with her January this year. My wife is no more with me, so myself and my daughter stay together, and I sleep with her when the urge comes.” The police command also paraded one Joshua Aiworo, aged 38, and his wife, Blessing Ogieva, aged 25, for stealing and selling a baby of two months and seven days to one Felicia Imaguomaruomwan at the rate of N300,000. The husband and wife confessed that one Joy Samuel , aka Mama Jennifer who based in Italy linked them up with the buyer (Felicia). They further confessed that the initial agreement with the buyer (Felicia) was that after payment of the above amount, she was going to provide capital to Mrs. Ogieva so that she can start a business of her own.