Super Eagles midfielder and Leicester City of England star, Wilfred Ndidi has won many accolades in his blossoming football career – from the best tackler in the Premier League to being rated by FIFA and listed in CAF XI, but none of these has warmed his heart than welcoming his first child – a baby girl. It was a special goal for Ndidi Ndidi last week announced the arrival of his first child with wife Dinma. The Leicester City star disclosed that the adorable baby girl had been named Jaina as he posted of himself carrying the jewel on his Instagram handle. Ndidi branded himself as the most fortunate man in the world after marrying long term girlfriend Dinma in Abuja last year. And just about 12 months, later, the love birds have welcomed their first child. “I’m fortunate to know that God is gracious – Jaina,” he captioned the post while carrying the baby. He was also pictured leaving the hospital alongside his wife. Many of Ndidi’s team-mates in the Super Eagles have taken time to congratulate the 23-year-old including John Ogu, Alex Iwobi and fellow Leicester team-mate and compatriot Kelechi Iheanacho. “Congrats bro, welcome to the club,” Manchester United forward Odion Ighalo wrote, while other colleagues including Ogenyi Onazi, Kenneth Omeruo, Shehu Abdullahi, Ahmed Musa, Victor Osimhen as well as Super Falcons’ Asisat Oshoala were among the first to congratulate the star. After the end of the 2018/2019 Premier League campaign with Leicester City, Ndidi flew to Abuja where he and his girlfriend tied the knot. It started with a traditional ceremony on May 23, which held at the Ibeto Hotel event centre at the Gudu District of Abuja. With a host of his national teammates and friends still on club duties, Kelechi Iheanacho was the only Super Eagles player in attendance at the traditional wedding. Super Eagles great, Kanu Nwankwo and several Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) officials were also in attendance. On Saturday, May 25, the couple completed their nuptial with a white wedding which started with a church service at the National Ecumenical Centre in the central business district in Abuja and ended with a reception at the Pitchvine Marquee Wedding and Event Centre at the Cadastral Zone in Wuye, Abuja. Ndidi’s best man for his big day was childhood friend Collins Igbobi while his groomsmen included Iheanacho, Israel Adelaja who is the CEO of Cretentive Media, England-based Nigerian musician EBS, Don Daniel, a friend who is based in England, Chris, another friend who is based in Belgium and Mr. Theo, also a very good friend of the Leicester City midfielder. Premier League star Isaac Success was in attendance alongside Nigerian coach Manu Garba. Wives and Girlfriends (WAGS) of the Super Eagles were represented by Odion Ighalo’s wife Sonia and Henry Onyekuru’s partner. Other notable personalities that attended the white wedding include, Larry Gaaga, actor Mike Ezuruonye while comedian Funnybone was the MC. Wilfred Ndidi, however, had little time for his honeymoon with his wife as he joined Super Eagles camp on June 2 for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON). Ndidi and Fortune, a medical student have known each other since they were teenagers and have been dating for a couple of years. So far this season and even since the Nigerian joined Premier League side Leicester City, Ndidi has been one of the best midfielders in the English topflight. And according to the report by Calciomercato, Juventus have identified Ndidi as the ideal man who will be of good help in their squad. “The Leicester midfielder Wilfred Ndidi would have ended up in the sights of the Turin leadership. In this season the Nigerian has collected a total of 2224 minutes scoring two goals and one winning assist,” the website stated. Meanwhile, Ndidi has reiterated his commitment to Leicester city, saying he was enjoying himself with the Premier League club. The Nigerian international who has established himself as one of the best defensive midfielders in the English top-flight, has delivered a consistent high level of performance since joining the Foxes from Genk in 2017. His form has seen him linked to Premier League rivals Arsenal and Manchester United, but he is under contract at the King Power Stadium until 2024 and has no plans to move. “We are doing well and I am enjoying myself here. I still have a contract with Leicester,” Ndidi said. The Super Eagles star has made 29 appearances across all competitions for the Foxes this season despite suffering from the occasional injury problem. His form has been a key element of Leicester sitting third in the table prior to the Coronavirus-enforced break in the campaign, but the 23-year-old feels manager Brendan Rodgers is the decisive factor in the team’s success this term. “It’s the Brendan Rodgers effect,” he said. “With him, it is not just about the 11 players and subs. Even the players in the Under-23s, he carries everybody along. “So there is always space for anybody to fill in and to play. He is that kind of coach that always believes in the squad and not just one player. The main thing is the squad, the squad comes first. “That is why we are doing very well, because we understand that we must always try our best. Where we are is because we work hard and try to improve all.” Ndidi also praised the influence that Rodgers has had on him individually, adding: “No disrespect to other managers but kudos to Brendan Rodgers. He has done a lot of work on me. I remember the Chelsea game when Mason Mount took the ball from me and scored? That day made me a better player. “The manager and the staff spoke to me. They made me understand what to do better and made me take it as a habit to do certain things, but he encouraged me to continue to play my game. “The fact that he trusts and tries to improve the players is one thing. It is very difficult for a manager to come in and then dedicate himself to improving players, getting regular one-on-one meetings with players to help them make improvements. “This is professional football, some teams won’t have that time for you to do all that. Everybody just focused on the business, they’re paying you for it and expect you to do the work. But Rodgers is different, very different.”