Danhodi Empowerment Foundation, a non-profit and non-political organization committed to improving the quality of life for disadvantaged Nigerians, has donated 600 units of PCR detection kits valued at N5.1 million to Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Bayero University, situated in Aminu Kano teaching hospital. The equipment, which is compatible with the PCR machine currently in use at the laboratory, was sent to the state through the Director, Centre for Infectious Diseases Research (CIDR) Bayero University Kano, Professor Isa Abubabakar. The donation was accompanied by a letter addressed to the Vice Chancellor, Bayero University, Professor Muhammad Yahuza Bello, who is the Chairman of Kano State Fund Raising Committee of Covid-19. The founder and Trustee of the foundation, Ghali Musa Danhodi, in a statement, said the Foundation was delighted to be part of the ongoing fight against COVID-19. “Our intervention as a foundation will be used to support healthcare facilities in Kano; the Center for Infectious Diseases Research Bayero University Kano,” he said, adding that the test kits donated will help in early detection and support to already available kits for the healthcare personnel and the support staff in Kano state. “We are committed to standing by the people and with the Nigerian Government and people in defeating COVID-19, ” Danhodi further said. While thanking the foundation on behalf of the state, Abubakar said: “This gesture is a great support to the NCDC laboratory in AKTH that is currently serving the state as well as the new one, which will soon commence operation at the CIDR BUK, both within the premises of Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital (AKTH). He also urged other well meaning Nigerians to take a leaf from the foundation and support the efforts of the government and the institutions towards the fight against the spread of COVID-19. Over the years, Danhodi Empowerment Foundation have been standing by the government and the community in empowering and supporting the less privileged, the youths, and also in donations of medical equipment to Aminu Kano teaching hospital. Besides, the Foundation supports the society through feeding of orphans, sponsoring of surgeries, and providing school fees for the less privileged among others in Nigeria.