The respected auto dealer, Coscharis Motors Plc, a subsidiary of Coscharis Group is set to reopen its auto sales outlets and service workshops in accordance with the government’s recent directive. A statement by the group said the opening cuts across her Quicklane services, major service centres and auto care business in Lagos and Abuja. According to the Coscharis Group Managing Director, Josiah Samuel, “Coscharis Motors is set to commence operations but with the health and safety of its staff and customers as priority. Hence, we have delayed our reopening in order to open under strict conditions with a number of precautionary measures in place to sanitise and safeguard staff and customers”. These health and safety measures are now in place across all our business outlets with strict compliance to the directives of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and the Federal Government’s recommendations on working hours. We are prepared to mitigate the risk of spreading contagious illnesses during service and sales transactions by reducing physical contacts to the barest minimum while ensuring social distancing where it is inevitable.” Samuel said, “The steps we are taking represent the highest standards possible and are in line with Government regulations to keep our staff and customers safe during the approved business hours.” Vehicle hand overs and collections for services will be managed with specifically allocated time slots and staggered booking times to ensure social distancing. For all direct customer interaction areas such as the premise entrance, reception desks and parts and service counters, sanitizers have been provided with a social distancing notice of at least, 2 meters away. Cash will not be permitted for any transaction, and touchpads on card machines (POS) will be disinfected after every use. Strict protocols will see all staff and visitors undergo mandatory temperature checks upon entry to our premises. Furniture will be strategically arranged to maintain set distancing rules at the service and payments areas. Inside the dealership, customers are directed to the washing bay where all the vehicle touch points are disinfected and the key handed over to the service advisor, after it has been disinfected. Vehicles leaving the dealership after services, repairs or purchases will be put through an intensive cleaning process using specially-approved products for various surfaces. All tools and service-based machinery will also be regularly disinfected. All Coscharis staff will wear face masks at all times, and uniforms will be washed daily. As per government guidelines our work facilities will be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected daily with heavy traffic areas such as bathrooms, refreshment areas and service desks getting increased attention. While Coscharis equally assures customers that showrooms are as safe as possible, it is also possible to receive e-brochures on available new Ford, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover or Renault via the www.coscharisgroup.net from the comfort of their homes. Anyone who needs to visit our dealership for any reason, whether for scheduled services, maintenance, vehicle parts sales and quick fix at our Quicklane centres is urged to please phone ahead for bookings. Coscharis Motors is one of the subsidiaries of the Coscharis Group representing exclusively iconic auto brands like Rolls-Royce, BMW, Jaguar LandRover, Ford and Renault for both Sales and Aftersales offerings in Nigeria. Both showrooms and service centers are available in the six geo – political zones of the country to deliver value for money at all times as a consistent contributor to the nation’s economy.