By Kayode Fasua The national umbrella for Public Office Holders Association of Nigeria (POHAN) Thursday lauded the appointment of notable diplomat and former Minister of External Affairs, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, as new Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari. Gambari’s appointment followed the death of the occupier of the seat, Mallam Abba Kyari, as a result of the Covid-19 disease. Applauding GambarI’s appointment, POHAN, which is the umbrella body for public servants, political appointees inclusive, said the reconciliatory roles played under the aegis of the United Nations by the ex-minister at various times would come in handy, in curbing insurgency in the northern parts of the country. In a statement by the National President of POHAN, Comrade Deola Eseyin, issued to THISDAY in Abeokuta, Ogun State, the body said, “President Buhari, in appointing Gambari as his new Chief of Staff, had put a round peg in a round hole. “Apart from the Coronavirus pandemic which is a global problem, Nigeria is peculiarly beset with the problem of Boko Haram insurgency. “With the coming of Gambari, whose wealth of experience is overwhelming, we have the firm belief that Mr. President is going to be enriched with new, fresh ideas on how to fully nip the insurgency in the bud,” the association enthused. The POHAN also expressed the belief that Gambari, as an elder and career diplomat would rally all working with the President to display diligence in the discharge of their duties. The body, which, however, regretted the damage the Coronavirus pandemic had done to the socio-economic wellbeing of the country, expressed the conviction that with determination, the government and people of the country would overcome the challenge in due course. “Our observation is that, with adequate motivation, the average Nigerian public servant is resilient and can be trusted to do all within their powers to implement government’s policies and achieve desired results. “Enhancing that sort of commitment by public office holders is, as such, highly expected at this challenging moment of Covid-19 disruptions,” the POHAN said