By Udora Orizu The Speaker of the House of Representatives Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, Friday donated food and sanitary items to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Durumi and Kuchigoro camps in Abuja. The palliatives included over 300 bags of rice, cartons of edible vegetable oil, cartons of noodles, packs of sanitizers and bags of masks, among other items. During the outreach programme, Gbajabiamila reiterated the determination of the government to address various challenges facing IDPs in the country. Represented by his Special Assistant on IDPs, Hamzat Ibrahim Baba, the Speaker urged the displaced persons not to despair and assured them that they have not been forgotten and would not be left behind. He said efforts would be made to ensure that every Nigerian that has suffered the misfortune of being forced to flee their homes would be encouraged to return to productive livelihood. He said: “We are here to extend the arm of fellowship to our brothers and sisters who, in flight from conflict and deprivation, have come to find a measure of peace in the protection of this camp. “We have come bearing gifts, which we hope will in some small way help to improve the circumstances of life for all those who are resident in this camp. But more than that, we have come bearing assurances that you have not been forgotten and you will not be left behind.” In his response, the coordinator/spokesman of Abuja-based IDPs, Idris Ibrahim Halidu, while commending the gesture of the Speaker, noted that Gbajabiamila is the first lawmaker to remember IDPs in Abuja since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. He said: “The Speaker has been around for a long time and we know him, he is not a bench warmer; he has been very active and proactive. He is the first to remember us since the outbreak of this pandemic. As we thank him for this kind gesture, we implore him to help to resuscitate the IDPs Bill. It passed second reading in the 8th National Assembly but could not go further. We want to encourage him to assist in revisiting the Bill.”