Despite the coronavirus pandemic that has stopped all sporting activities around the globe, Nigeria born British Heavyweight champion, Anthony Joshua, recorded the biggest rise in fortune in sport over the past year. According to Sunday Times Rich List, Joshua’s net worth rose by £58million in what was a year of mixed emotions for the boxer. The 30-year-old Sagamu son’s net worth stands at £107million after a successful campaign in 2019 that saw him recapture the WBA, IBF, WBO and IBO heavyweight titles in Saudi Arabia following a shocking defeat to Andy Ruiz Jr in their first fight. Joshua is second to Gareth Bale in the Young Rich List, though his fortune is way off Lewis Hamilton’s £224million net worth as the richest sports star in Britain. Joshua made £18million in his first fight against Andy Ruiz Jr last summer at the Madison Square Garden. He reclaimed his title via unanimous decision in the rematch in Diriyah, Saudi Arabia last December. Several endorsement deals add further to his annual income, leading to a fortune now estimated at £107million. Similarly, Nigeria forward, Odion Ighalo has made UK’s Sunday TimesRich List for those aged 30 or under. Ighalo, who will be 31 in June sits in 15th position and is among the five Manchester players in the illustrious list. The former Watford striker’s £18million wealth is factored by his substantial £300,000-a-week wage at parent club Shanghai Shenhua. Ighalo is on loan at United until the end of the month with the Premier League side contributing £130,000-a-week towards his wages. Ighalo’s Manchester United teammates, Paul Pogba sits third in the list with a wealth of £50million. His income has increased by £13million from 2019 seeing him jump up five places from eighth. David de Gea, who became Manchester United’s highest-paid star after signing a new £375000-a-week contract in September – is joint-fourth at £34million. Anthony Martial, who signed a new deal at United last year – worth £200,000-a-week sits joint-11th at a wealth of £20million with Liverpool centre back Virgil van Dijk. Luke Shaw sits joint-13th with Liverpool forward Mohamed Salah at £19million.