As the world continues to battle the challenges associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, the African Democratic Congress has celebrated Nigerian workers for their steadfastness and commitment to the growth of Nigeria, despite tough working conditions. In a goodwill message to Nigerian workers, the party commended them for carrying on as true heroes of the nation, amid rising insecurity and economic hardship, occasioned by years of insensitive leadership. A statement released yesterday by the National Publicity Secretary, Yemi Kolapo, said, “If Nigerian workers, especially the health workers on the frontline of the intense struggle to contain the spread of COVID-19 and minimise fatalities, and others in the line of essential services, had refused to risk their lives in the face of clear uncertainties, blaming them would have been difficult. “When workers do not earn a living wage, and there is no guarantee that their dependants would not be left in abject poverty and sorrow should they pay the ultimate price, there will always be a temptation to ignore duty calls. But our health workers have demonstrated, in this instance, that they are more committed to Nigeria than those they have elected as captains of the ship. “They abandoned their families and comfort zones for the battlefront while telling the rest of us to stay safe at home. They are aware that, like in a war situation, there is no strict assurance of returning unscathed, and that in a country, where government officials have performed more as rulers than leaders over the years, the consequences are dicey. But they have continued to lead the fight even when overall conditions of service for workers have been made worse by the many economic goofs of the ruling government. For this, we celebrate them as the indisputable heroes of our nation.” While recognising Nigerian workers as the tripod supporting the Nigerian economy against all odds, the party urged the Federal Government to urgently fulfill its part of pending agreements with different categories of workers in Nigeria and ensure that workers earn decent wages that could mitigate the effects of hunger in the land. The ADC, however, commended the security agencies for stepping up their vigilance during the lockdown period but added that they needed to do more to truly protect both vulnerable and other citizens. “The President Muhammadu Buhari administration should also map out clear strategies to manage an unavoidable post-COVID-19 socio-economic crisis, with distinct implementation plans. There must also be conscious efforts to make the business environment bearable for Small and Medium Enterprises, which are the main engines of growth for economies worldwide,” the party said.