Omon-Julius Onabu in Asaba Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, yesterday in Asaba, the state capital, swore in five new judges in the state with a charge that they should guide against granting frivolous injunctions, but avoid frequent adjournments so as to ensure speedy dispensation of justice at all times. He said the five new judges were appointed in line with procedures for such appointments as enshrined in Section 271, sub-section (2) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended). The appointees possessed proven track record of performance, critical thinking skills and the noble temperament expected of judges, he stated. The newly sworn-in judges are Ighoverio Aruoriwo, Emmanuel Dolor, Onome Marshal-Umukoro, Veronica Agboje and Ferdinand Enenmo. While congratulating the five judges, the governor stressed that their appointments were fitting reward for their years of diligence, patience and determination to excel, and urged them to brace up to the challenge of their new positions. Okowa said: “As you begin your journey as privileged members of the Bench, I expect you to continue in the same spirit of hard work, excellence and perseverance that fetched you this elevation. “You must see this promotion for what it is – a call to more work and higher responsibilities. Therefore, you cannot afford to be complacent. “In the discharge of your duties as judges, you must consistently exhibit the qualities of open-mindedness, transparency, punctuality and firmness. “Your job as judges will further challenge your intellect, task your patience, demand greater resourcefulness, and most importantly, test your value system. “I expect you to maintain a high level of discipline and personal integrity. Your ethical conduct must always be above board; make it a point of duty to shun every appearance of temptation, bearing in mind that justice for one is justice for all. “One of the things you must guard against is the frivolous use of injunctions and the frequent adjournments of cases, which not only lead to delay and congested courts but have also contributed to negative perception of the judiciary in the court of public opinion. “You have an obligation to see to it that justice is not only served but it is also seen to be served, so that the judiciary does not lose the confidence of the public from which it ultimately derives its authority.” Nevertheless, the governor reiterated his administration’s commitment to continually build capacity in the judiciary, enhance the process of justice delivery and provide working environment conducive for judges and support staff. He noted that the construction of High Court complex in Asaba had reached advanced stage while the renovation of the courtrooms were being done in phases, adding that the “projects will continue to receive priority attention from this administration even as we skillfully navigate our way through the current economic meltdown occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic.” Responding on behalf of new judges, Justice Emmanuel Dolor thanked God and those who made it possible for them to emerge as judges, and assured them that they would carry out their duties without fear or favour.