Ernest Chinwo in Port Harcourt The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has condemned the federal government for refusing to assist state governments and provide direction for the country in the fight against COVID-19. This is as former Nigeria’s Ambassador to South Korea, Desmond Akawor, took over as the new Rivers State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chairman. Speaking yesterday in Port Harcourt at the inauguration of the new state PDP executive, Secondus berated the federal government for not supporting states in their efforts to stop the spread of the pandemic in their various state. He said: “The state governors are working without help from the federal government. But for God, the situation would have been worse. “Governors are running from pillar to post. We must be grateful to Governor Nyesom Wike for the initiative that he took. What the governor has done has helped to drastically reduce the number of cases. “Rivers State is lucky to have Wike as governor at this time of crisis.” Secondus said those who spread negative propaganda do so out of hatred, as he congratulated the new Rivers State PDP Executive Committee, advising them to work for the growth of the party. Speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly, Mr. Ikuinyi Ibani, administered the oath of office on the new executives led by Akawor. In his charge, Wike called on the new executives to work towards consolidating the gains of the immediate-past executive led by Felix Obuah. He commended Obuah and his team for leading the party to victory in the state since the 1999. According to Wike, “We had challenges at the beginning, but that executive was committed to service. Obuah has shown capacity to deliver. It will not be easy for the new executives, but they must start to prepare the party for the challenges ahead. Work hard to surpass the records of the past executives. Working together is key just as unity is also key.” The new state PDP Chairman, Akawor, thanked the leadership and members of the party for giving him the opportunity to serve. He said God has used Wike to rebuild a new Rivers State, as he saluted the resilience of PDP in weathering the storm, assuring the people that the new executive would serve the party diligently.