Udora Orizu in Abuja The House of Representatives has resolved the issues surrounding the delay in the payment of salary of some health workers in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The issues were resolved at a meeting yesterday between the leadership of the House led by it Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila; Minister of the FCT, Mohammed Bello; Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire’ Accountant General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris, and officials of the health workers. The health workers under the aegis of Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU) and Assembly of Healthcare Professionals are to receive their salary on or before May 22, 2020. In his remarks at the meeting, Gbajabiamila noted that the House would not fold its arms and watch the health workers embark on strike as they threatened to on May 28. The Speaker expressed dismay that some health workers, who have been at the frontline of the fight against COVID-19, did not receive their salary and allowances since January. He said from the information at his disposal, the issues had to do with the office of the Accountant General of the Federation, saying equity and diligence must be adhered to in dealing with such issues. Gbajabiamila commended the health workers for their sacrifices and patience over the past few months, and assured them that the House would always prioritise their welfare. Also speaking, FCT Minister, Bello, while thanking the Speaker for his intervention, said the FCT Administration had always paid salaries as and when due, but that with the introduction of the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS), they have been experiencing some hiccups. However, he said all the issues have been resolved with the office of the Accountant General of the Federation (AGF). Giving an update on the issue, the AGF Idris, said all issues have been resolved and that the FCT health workers would get their salary on or before May 22. “After the FCTA approached his office for enrollment into the IPPIS sometime in 2018, over 25,000 workers of the administration were enrolled in over 12 months. It was later discovered that more than 500 of them, mainly health workers and teachers, were not captured and that the process of capturing them was delayed due to the lockdown necessitated by COVID-19. As we speak, we’ve done the payroll and payment will be made on or before May 22,” he stated. The Chairman of JOHESU in FCT, Mrs. Yusufu, while commending the Speaker for his intervention, said they were not against IPPIS, but that all they desire was for their salary and allowances to be paid on time.