By Omolabake Fasogbon Consumer goods company, FoodCo Nigeria Limited, has launched its presence in the Nigerian e-commerce space. This move aims to fill up the gaps in existing online markets to offer shoppers real value. Speaking during the launch, Marketing Manager of the firm, Solomon Huesu stated that the business expansion to online platform opens up a new vista in consumers’ retail space and underlies the firm’s commitment to driving innovation, in order to meet the lifestyle demands of contemporary shoppers. He said, “The platform integrates both shopping and payment portal, as well as an extensive variety of stock, taking the in-store experience online for customers who prefer to shop from the safety and comfort of their homes. “The e-commerce platform has been in the works, but with the challenges imposed by COVID-19, we thought it was necessary to move the launch date forward to ensure that our customers do not experience frustrations in shopping for their favourite groceries, meals, household items and other essentials. “The online supermarket offers a seamless customer experience that complements our in-store offering, in addition to delivering on FoodCo guarantee of best quality at an affordable price. “It also boasts the most extensive range of supermarket products across all categories, giving access to thousands of top quality products from our stock to users on the platform. This is currently unparalleled in the country and that makes us the first true online supermarket in Nigeria.” Huesu added that shopping on the platform comes with convenience in both ordering and delivery of items. The firm has also announced the launch of its home delivery service to complement the online service. This gives customers the option of having items delivered to their doorstep within two hours of placing an order “As a customer-centered brand, we are continuously redefining our processes to raise the bar on convenience and customer satisfaction so as to meet their expectations on integrity, safety and speed,” Huesu said.