By John Shiklam Twenty people have been reportedly killed by suspected Fulani herdsmen in communities in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State. President of the Adara Association (ADA), Mr. Awema Maisamari disclosed this in a statement yesterday in Kaduna. He said the killings took place following daily attacks on communities in the past four days. “There have been daily attacks and destruction from Monday to Thursday in the remote settlements of Magunguna, Idazo, Ungwan Galadima, Ungwan Guza, Etissi, Ungwan Ma’aji, Ungwan Dantata, Ungwan Araha 1 & 2, Ungwan Goshi, Ungwan Shaban, Ungwan Jibo, Ungwan Maijama’a, Ungwan Sako, Ungwan Maidoki and Ungwan Masaba. “These are all satellite settlements of Kallah, Libere and Gefe towns. “As at this afternoon (Friday) 20 persons have been killed, several others are injured or missing” Maisamari said. “We simply lack the words to properly describe the atmosphere of anarchy and despair that is fast taking root in our communities with women, children, the sick and the elderly fleeing with the little belongings they can salvage,” he said. He said “Our brutalised, dehumanised, terrified and traumatised community members are reeling in pains, ever wondering why this contrived anarchy is still being condoned by the powers that be.” According to him, “from January to 22/5/2020, the killings, maiming, burning, looting and kidnappings have continued unabated from village to village. “Within the period, there have been 63 terrorist attacks and kidnapping incidents, more than 107 people killed, about 49 persons injured, more than 66 men/women/girls abducted for ransom, more than 111 houses burnt, another whole 32 villages destroyed and 20,000 persons displaced, especially in the last two weeks”. He accused the government of alleged silence and failure to stop the attacks. Mohammad Jalige, spokesman of the Kaduna state police command could not be reached as he did not respond to a telephone call and a text message sent to his mobile phone.