Kemi Olaitan in Ibadan and James Sowole in Akure Ondo State Governor, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu and his counterpart in Oyo State, Mr. Seyi Makinde have appointed commanders for the Amotekun corps in their respective states. Two months after he signed the Amotekun bill into law, Akeredolu has appointed Chief Adetunji Olu Adeleye as the Corps Commander, Ondo State Security Network Agency and Amotekun Corps. Adeleye retired as Deputy Commandant General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). Other appointments approved by Governor Akeredolu were Mrs. Toyin Akinmoyo- Senior Special Assistant for Women Affairs; Mr. Bosun Oladimeji as Senior Special Assistant Publication, Hon. Albert Akintoye as Senior Special Assistant for Public Utilities. A statement signed by Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Segun Ajiboye, said the governor wished the new appointees successes in their various assignments. On his part, Makinde, has appointed the duo of General Ajibola Kunle Togun and retired Colonel Olayanju Bisiriyu Olayinka as chairman and commandant, respectively, of the Oyo State Security Network, codenamed Amotekun. The governor, in a statement signed by his Special Assistant (Print Media), Mr. Moses Alao, indicated that the retired military officers will oversee the initiative, which was put in place to check insecurity in the state. Makinde signed the Amotekun Bill into law in March, with the government having procured vehicles and other equipment for use by the security outfit which, he noted, was set up to complement the efforts of other security agencies in the state. The new chairman of the outfit, General Togun, retired from the military having served as Director of Military Intelligence and former Deputy Director-General of the State Security Service (now Department of State Services). Similarly, the newly appointed commandant of the Oyo State Amotekun outfit, Col. Olayinka (rtd), has several years of experience in the military, having served as Assistant Director, British Military Advisory Training Team, Defence Headquarters, Abuja; Deputy Chief of Staff (Logistics), Headquarters 2 Div, Nigerian Army, Ibadan and Sector Commander, Operation Safe Haven, Plateau State, among others.