By Okechukwu Chukwuebuka Nigeria is a great place to visit, and has plenty of off the radar attractions that would make for fun adventures. Wildlife reserves are probably the most popular attraction in the country. Check out some options to go on Safari through wildlife. You can do that in the daytime and still find time in your day to see what the night life options are in South Africa. We will outline below the absolute best options for exploring in Nigeria and the surrounding regions. South Africa is also home to Cape Town, one of the most interesting cities in the world. Watch penguins frolic on the beach, spend a day at a winery, or a night out on the town. While land-based casinos in Nigeria are limited, you can still find a South African casino  to go to while you are there. Since options for playing in person are a bit limited, you also might want to consider playing online. Top 6 attractions in Nigeria A trip to Nigeria can be well worth the money. Make the investment in visiting this great country, and you will have no shortages of things to see and do. Here is a list of our recommendations for the 6 best places to visit while you are in Nigeria: ● Agbokim Waterfalls – If hiking and nature are what you are after, look no further. Spend the day in these peaceful waterfalls, and you will leave feeling very relaxed and serene. ● Natural War Museum – For history buffs, you will want to go to this war museum located in Umuahia. Here you can learn all about the war history in Nigeria, and see a collection of tanks that were used in wars. ● Lake Chad – Something for water lovers, this lake provides water to 30 million people. Spend time exploring this lake that is very important to the history and future of the people of Nigeria. You can get lost in the scenery at Lake Chad, or you can research all about its history and the struggles of providing water to so many citizens. ● Okomu National Park and Forest Reserve – This area is ripe for exploring. Lots of open lands and deep forests can connect you with nature. Many endangered species live in these forests, and you could see some interesting wildlife that do not exist anywhere else in the world. ● Ibeno Beach – You can spend time at the beach when you are in Nigeria. This beach is the longest sand beach along the entire coast of West Africa. Spend the day at the beach and relax at this beach. ● National Arts Theatre – For Art and Theater fans, there is something for you too. This theatre hosts the performing arts. As you can see, there are plenty of things to do in Nigeria. Do not shy away from planning a trip here. Our top 6 attractions just scratch the surface on all there is to see and do here. *Okechukwu Chukwuebuka is an Editor at 360NaijaHits 