Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi The Governor of Bauchi State, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, has lifted the ban that was placed on religious gatherings in the state as a measure to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the state. The lifting of ban, which became effective today (Thursday) followed the success achieved so far in the management of the COVID-19 pandemic in the state as shown in the massive number of recoveries the state has recorded. Mohammed made this known yesterday during a stakeholders meeting held at the Command Guest House, Bauchi, where he emphasised that the state has been able to put the pandemic under control, despite the number of infections in the state. He said: “We are now looking at the possibility of lifting the lockdown completely in the state so that people will go about their normal businesses starting from Thursday (today). But we will have to agree with some templates where we will continue with the social distancing and mask wearing will become compulsory” “This decision will be taken by you because the total decision of the lockdown was taken by you. We are just suggesting as a government and on behalf of the government, I am suggesting that as from Thursday, we should lift the Lockdown, even the one in Katagum. “People will go about their normal businesses, pray on Friday and if we agree on context and character, so that people will go to Eid. But we will need the support of our royal fathers, so that there will not be much celebrations. We will only achieve what we want to achieve as Muslims, pray and thank Allah for the day. But there will be no horse riding if you agree. This is subject to our discussion here.” he said The governor also disclosed during the third stakeholders’ meeting held at the Command Guest Inn in Bauchi with religious and traditional leaders, the Civil Society Organizations, security and the media organizations. He said that the aim of the meeting was for the stakeholders to assist the state government in ensuring that the protective protocols are adhered to strictly. He promised that the state government would produce 900,000 facemasks to be distributed to the people of the state since it has become imperative that residents should be using facemasks regularly in order to contain the deadly COVID-19 pandemic. “That is why we are producing 900,000 facemasks to share to our people. It is not all people that can buy or acquire the facemasks. That is why government is going to produce facemasks and distribute to our people to contain the spread of the pandemic,” the governor stated.