Kayode Fasua in Abeokuta The Celestial Church of Christ Worldwide has made a donation of N25 million to Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), as well as Lagos and Ogun State governments to support Nigeria’s fight against COVID-19 pandemic. The Pastor of the church, Revd Emmanuel Oshoffa presented the donation to the Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Mrs Noimot Salako-Oyedele at the Government House, Abeokuta during a courtesy visit recently. Oshoffa, who was accompanied by the church’s spokesperson, Prof. Bola Akinterinwa among others, assured the government of the continued support of the entire congregation of the Celestial Church of Christ Worldwide Oshoffa lauded the efforts of the government at combating the deadly scourge especially as regards the provision of medical facilities and palliatives for the citizens of Ogun State in particular and Nigeria in general. He, also, informed the state government of the church’s plan to commence the construction of a world-class university in the Celestial City, Imeko before the year runs out. The cleric, therefore, pleaded with the administration of Governor Dapo Abiodun to reconstruct or consider dualisation of the Abeokuta-Imeko Road. In response, Salako-Oyedele who received the church delegation on behalf of the governor expressed appreciation for the donation and gave an assurance that the donation would be used to tackle the deadly virus. She said that she would convey the prayers of the church concerning the proposed Celestial International University, Imeko, Ogun State and the re-construction of the Abeokuta-Imeko Road to the state governor. The leader of the delegation, Most Superior Evangelist J.D. Nunayon prayed that God bless and prosper the government and people of Ogun State Among others, the delegation comprised Superior Evangelist M.O. Shodunke, SVMSE Kayode Ajala and Evangelist Gbenga Daniel Adebayo. As a way of flattening the curve of the pandemic, the state government, through its newly installed molecular laboratory in Sagamu, has ensured that no fewer than 650 persons are tested daily. Abiodun made the disclosure, while briefing journalists on efforts by his administration to curtail the spread of the Coronavirus disease. Abiodun particularly commiserated with the families of the nine persons who had died as a result of the disease in the state, even as he assured that his administration was on top of the situation. He particularly praised the diligence of health workers and security agents in helping to stem the tide of the disease, just as he cautioned that people should not dare the deadly disease by dropping all prescribed precautionary measures “Between Thursday, 21 May and yesterday, Wednesday, 27 May 2020, we recorded 59 new positive cases, an increase of 32 percent, bringing the total number of positive cases to date to 242. “We thank God, once again, that in the same period, additional 12 individuals had been successfully treated and discharged from our Treatment Centres, bringing the total discharged cases to 109, and leaving us with 133 active cases. “The 12 per cent increase in the number of successful discharges is a delightful continuation of the trend we have been witnessing. We thank God and appreciate the team of our healthcare providers for this development. “Sadly, we regret the loss of three people, two of whom were confirmed positive after their death. This brings the total mortality to nine, as against six at the last briefing. May God repose the souls of the departed, comfort their families and heal the world. “We have also continued our community screening and testing. And our testing capacity has been further boosted during the week. The Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has accredited our Molecular Laboratory in Sagamu, the first state-government, fully funded molecular laboratory in the country. “With our mobile laboratory, also the first of its kind in Nigeria, which has been in use for weeks, we now have a combined daily testing capacity of about 650. “To put into context our effort so far, we have screened about 10,900 people out of which we have tested 1,562; thus placing us Number 4 in the country, in number of tests conducted, out of which 242 had turned out positive,” Abiodun recalled. He, however, lifted the lockdown imposed on the state as from next Monday but warned that government would not compromise restriction orders such as social distance, wearing of ace masks and the use of sanitisers.