In strengthening the fight against Coronavirus pandemic, Fast Moving Consumers Good firm, Tolaram Group, has supported the Nigerian government with N1 billion, including products. According to the company, the gesture would assist the government as it steps up the fight against the pandemic, as well as help in the treatment of diagnosed individuals. The donation is in addition to the thousands of cartons of food products and Hypo disinfectant that the organisation had previously donated to multiple State Governments, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) in the country. The group has also been involved in the feeding of internally displaced persons, police professionals, product donation to medical personnel across the country a well as setting up of disinfectant tunnel in 20 major markets across Lagos to curtail the spread of the virus. Speaking during the presentation, Managing Director, Tolaram Group, Mr. Haresh Aswani, commended the efforts of the government in fighting the virus so far as well as commitment of medical personnel. He described the medical personnel as heroes who risk their lives daily to take care of the infected and helping to curb the spread of the virus in the country. He said, “We believe that no amount of support is too much during this trying global challenge. We also believe our contribution will go a long way to expand the health capabilities on ground, especially testing, isolation, provision of treatment facilities, and humanitarian palliative measures which are essential to curb the spread of the virus and support Nigerians in its aftermath.” He said, “It is a difficult moment for any government globally, but so far, our government has done remarkably well in her fight against the virus and must be commended. We will continue to collaborate with the government and all relevant agencies at both the federal and state levels to jointly combat the effects of the virus.” Aswani informed further that the group in collaboration with NCDC has embarked on an enlightenment and awareness campaign to educate Nigerians more on COVID-19 through various media channels, in line with WHO’s guidelines for safety. He urged Nigerians to continue to abide by the directives of WHO, NCDC as well as federal and state health agencies so as to defeat the virus as soon as possible. Earlier, Tolaram Group has in collaboration with other private sector companies contributed to setting up a 110-bed intensive care centre, equipped with world-class medical equipment including ventilators for the treatment of infected and recovering people.