By John Shiklam Twenty new cases of Covid-19, which include a four-month-old child, were recorded in Kaduna State on Friday. The Commissioner for Health, Dr. Amina Baloni, who disclosed this in a statement on Saturday, said investigations indicate that the father of the infected child had a travel history to Kano. The commissioner said: “The infant, who had been brought to hospital for respiratory issues, was tested in accordance with the updated guidelines which advise that persons presenting with such symptoms be tested.” She said the parents of the child have been tested and were awaiting their results. Baloni said of the 20 cases, 15 cases were family members or close contacts of previously confirmed ones. According to her, ‘’Chikun has seven cases (including five members of the same family), Giwa recorded four from the Shika community while three cases are in Kaduna North. Sabon-Gari and Kaduna South have two cases each, while Igabi and Zaria have one each. “Six health workers are among the new cases, underlining the risks associated with containing and managing Covid-19. “The latest cases show that Covid-19 has spread into nine local governments, including Chikun, Igabi and Giwa, as well as Kaduna North, Kaduna South, Makarfi, Sabon-Gari, Soba and Zaria area councils. “This widening spread of Covid-19 means that the risk of infection has increased for persons who do not stay at home or who fail to observe necessary precautions when they go out.” Baloni called on parents to shun non-essential travel or interactions to avoid taking the virus home and infecting their children and loved ones, adding that: ‘’They must also exercise personal responsibility regarding not allowing visitors into their homes.’’ The commissioner said further that everyone owes his or her family a duty of care by not exposing them to visits and interactions that increase their risk of being infected. The statement further revealed: ‘’One of the Covid-19 fatalities in the state got infected when he received visitors at home. ‘’Elderly persons and those with chronic conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and respiratory diseases are more vulnerable to complications of Covid-19 infection.” Baloni appealed to all residents to wash their hands regularly with soap and water, wear masks if they have compelling reasons to go out, observe physical distancing and avoid large gatherings. “Our communities should also continue the public service of reporting suspicious cases in their areas,’’ Baloni added.