President Muhammadu Buhari has commiserated with the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Yusuf Buratai, over the death of his mother, Hajiya Hauwa Yusuf Buratai. President Buhari also yesterday prayed for the quick recovery of the Emir of Daura, Alhaji Umar Farouk-Umar. The President was in a telephone conversation with Buratai, who had been at forefront of the ongoing war against the terror group, Boko Haram, in the Northeast. Buhari, in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, however prayed for the repose of the soul of the Buratai matriarch, whom he said lived a pious and generous life. “President Muhammadu Buhari Wednesday had a telephone conversation with the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Yusuf Buratai, commiserating with him over the passing of his mother, Hajiya Hauwa Yusuf Buratai. “The President condoled with all members of the family, praying that the almighty God will receive the soul of the departed matriarch, who lived a pious, prayerful and generous life. “President Buhari also prayed that the almighty God will comfort Lt. Gen. Buratai, who has been at the epicenter of war against terrorists in North East, urging the family to find solace in Hajiya Hauwa’s good works”, the statement said. Meanwhile, Buhari yesterday prayed for the quick recovery of the Emir of Daura, Alhaji Umar Farouk-Umar. The monarch was admitted at the Federal Medical Centre, (FMC) in Katsina State, amid fears of COVID-19 spread in Daura. However, the cause of Farouk-Umar’s illness was not officially disclosed. Governor Aminu Masari had on Tuesday shut the emir’s palace, saying that the decision was to prevent the spread of the infection. In his message, Buhari said he received the news of the emir’s sudden illness with concern and expressed best wishes for the speedy recovery of the monarch. The President added, “I join the Daura Emirate and the entire people of Katsina State in praying for the recovery of our humble and dedicated emir, Alhaji Umar Farouk Umar.” Presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu, said in a statement that Buhari was satisfied with the progress of his treatment so far.