By Francis Sardauna The Katsina State Governor, Aminu Bello Masari, on Sunday ordered the relaxation of the lockdown imposed on the state to curtail the spread of the global Covid-19 pandemic for seven days. The governor, in a statement issued by the Secretary to State Government (SSG), Dr. Mustapha Inuwa, said the decision was taken during a regular review meeting with religious leaders and other critical stakeholders on the global health crisis. He said the nullification of the stay-at-home order would only be effective on Monday, May 18 to Sunday, May 24, 2020, adding that it will be observed within local governments. The governor had earlier revoked the lockdown imposed on Mani, Safana and Jibia Local Government Areas of the state. While warning that the ban on inter-local governments movement remained in force, Masari directed the Katsina and Daura Emirate Councils to ensure that district and village heads observe the forthcoming Eid-el-Fitr prayer within their chiefdoms. He lamented that two-thirds of the Covid-19 cases in the state were recorded in Katsina Local Government and urged residents to always adhere to the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) protocols such as wearing of masks, regular hand washing, use of sanitizers and social distancing. Masari, however, applauded the efforts of front line health workers who have been assisting the state in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, urging security agencies to do more in safeguarding lives and property of the citizenry. He equally commended the people of the state for their understanding, support and cooperation exhibited since the outbreak of the infectious disease and admonished them to intensify prayers for God to halt the spread of virus in the state. According to the statement, “The relaxation of the order is only effective between Monday 18th to Sunday 24th May, 2020 and it is to be observed within local governments while the ban on inter-local government movement remains in force. “Governor Aminu Bello Masari has further directed all Katsina and Daura emirate councils to ensure that district and village heads stay in their domains and observed the forthcoming Eid-el-Fitr prayer.”