By Kemi Olaitan The Registrar/Chief Executive, Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN), Prof. Segun Ajiboye, has said the Council has mobilised thousands of Nigerian teachers to participate in an online global conference focussed on adapting teaching to the change caused by Covid-19 pandemic. Ajiboye, who made the disclosure in a statement in Ibadan Thursday, said over 50,000 teachers have registered for the free online global conference. He said the state offices of TRCN mobilised teachers in their respective domains to bring them up to speed on the adaptive mode of teaching occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic, stating that the conference, which starts Saturday will expose teachers in the country as part of the global professional knowledge impartation to prepare them for the new reality in their job. He added that the conference with the theme, ‘The New Normal for teachers’, is aimed at sharing knowledge on how to leverage on technology to retool teachers in a new world unfolding by the Covid-19 pandemic. The TRCN boss stated further that the knowledge gained through the global conference will empower Nigerian teachers to learn what is new in their profession, compare notes and understand how to navigate the current challenge which has caused halting schooling in Nigeria due to the pandemic. According to him, “The T4Education conference is an international package put together to address the issue of Covid-19 pandemic and education, especially as it affects teachers. The conference is coordinated in Nigeria by T4Education in Nigeria. The Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria through its state offices mobilised Nigerian teachers to attend the online conference knowing its relevance and potential to address new challenges arising from the pandemic. “It is heartwarming to note that out of over 50 thousand teachers who have registered for this conference globally, Nigerian teachers constitute the majority. The conference comes up on Saturday, May 30, 2020.”