Segun James The Lagos State Government has issued over 479,028 vehicle number plates and driver’s licence in the state in the last one year, the state Commissioner for Transportation, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, has disclosed. According to him, the breakdown showed that 288,000 number plates and 191,028 driver’s licence were issued by the Motor Vehicle Administration Agency (MVAA) on a weekly basis, even as he said the agency issued a total of 6, 000 new number plates weekly; 24,000 monthly and a total of 288,000 in the last one year. Oladeinde said the administration had recently re-introduced the Temporary Vehicle Tag (TVT) to assist in providing a robust data base and sharing of valuable information about all new vehicles entering the state with the law enforcement agencies, which he said harped on safety as well as security alertness. “In conformity with the international standard, Lagos State Government has launched a newly designed Articulated and Allied Vehicle Number Plate (AVNP). The new AVNP comes in a set of three, which will be fixed on the cabin head, body and rear. ”A new website (verify.autoreg.ng) has also been created to enable law enforcement agency verify the authenticity of vehicle number plates,” he said. The commissioner added that the administration had simplified the process for the issuance of driver’s licence. “The period for obtaining driver’s licence has reduced from six weeks to two weeks. As at February 2020, a total of 191, 028 driver’s licenses were processed and issued to their owners in the most seamless way. “Likewise, there has been significant improvement in obtaining new number plates. It takes just a day to process and obtain a new number plate under the present administration. This is a departure from the obsolete cumbersome registration process,” he added. Oladeinde also said the ministry had completed the installation of truck barriers on selected bridges across the state in order to restrict the movement of articulated truck. He, however, said the state government had noticed that these truck barriers were damaged immediately after installation and warned that anyone caught in the process of damaging or removing road furniture would be seriously dealt with in accordance with the law.