Sunday Okobi The Federation of West African Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FEWACCI), and Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) have hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for appointing a major industrialist, Hajiya Muheeba Dankaka, as the chairperson of the board of the Federal Character Commission (FCC). They described it as an expression of government confidence in private sector input into governance and a major victory and measure of confidence in public private partnership (PPP) and as a win for women in government. In separate letters addressed to President Buhari, they described the appointment as a significant gesture towards the Organised Private Sector in Nigeria and the West African sub-region at large. The letter, which was signed by its Chief Executive Officer, Aminou Akadiri, on behalf of its President, Hajiya Saratu Iya Aliyu, added that the regional body’s interactions with Dankaka, through the NACCIMA have always been wholesome and productive and “we can attest to her industry and depth of experience cultivated from consistent participation in the Organised Private Sector in Nigeria for over 40 years and her excellent performance in various leadership positions, including as the immediate-past president of the Kaduna Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (KADCCIMA).” According to Akadiri, Dankaka has earned her stripes as an exceptional business leader and her giant strides in business development, advocacy, governance and enterprise, and the economic empowerment of women is well documented in Nigeria, West Africa and beyond. “Dankaka is equipped with all the skills and qualities required to flourish in her new office, as we once again express our appreciation for this opportunity for a member of the organised private sector to positively impact the public sector. “We sincerely look forward to more collaboration in the future between the public and private sectors for mutual benefit and the wellbeing of the good people of Nigeria and the West African sub-region,” it stated. On its own, NACCIMA in its letter stated that Dankaka’s in-depth experience at the pinnacle of business prepared her to occupy leadership positions in various business organisations and associations, including KADCIMMA where she served as president and also as an executive member of Coalition of Northern States Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (CONSCCIMA). “Dankaka is certainly an experienced private sector leader and entrepreneur who has made significant contributions to the growth of business and development in the private sector and productivity in Nigeria and West Africa. Her appointment is therefore a step in the right direction by your administration,” the group added.