By Vanessa Obioha With the gradual but cautious reopening of the economy, MultiChoice Nigeria announced that it will bring back its popular reality TV show, Big Brother Naija, for its fifth season. The company in a statement disclosed that following the success of the fourth season, the show is arguably one of the popular shows on the continent. “Big Brother Naija has been widely regarded as one of Africa’s biggest entertainment exports, being the biggest showcase of Nigeria’s diversity outside of core Nollywood,” says the company’s Chief Executive Officer John Ugbe. “This fifth season promises to be more adventurous, exciting and entertaining, and will undoubtedly be the biggest thing on African television in 2020.” Audition for the season which began today, May 20 and will run till Saturday, May 30 is limited to online and eligible to persons who are of Nigerian nationality with a valid Nigerian passport and must be 21 years of age by June 1, 2020. “Potential contestants are expected to record a two-minute video of themselves stating why they should be picked to be a Housemate in season 5 of Big Brother Naija. Following this, they are to log on to www.africamagic.tv/BBAudition to fill out the online registration form and upload their videos. The online audition is free and open to interested male and female participants,” reads the statement. Bringing back the reality show at a time the world is still dealing with the unpredictable coronavirus is likely to fetch the company criticisms. However, the company explained that “The timing of the show is also particularly important, given the dominance of the COVID-19 pandemic; auditions for the fifth edition will now hold online and viewers and stakeholders alike can rest assured knowing that global best practices, precautions and preventive measures will be followed throughout the show, even as we guarantee the premium entertainment BBNaija is renowned for.” Last year, the show fetched 240 million votes, the highest for the company since the show made its return in 2017. It also marked the first time a female emerged winner. Mercy Eke, the winner and Tacha, another female contestant who was later disqualified were the highlights of that season. The fifth season, according to the organisers, will deliver more drama.