By Yinka Olatunbosun There is a ‘Sakadelli’ in everyone of us. To be sure, everyone has a story to tell but many don’t think the stories are worth sharing. Uri Ngozichukwuka is sharing this interesting story in a mix of prose and poetry with her latest literary effort, “Sakadelli”, a title derived from the word “psychedelic.” The book has made its way to the White House Library and other leading universities in US and Canada. Told in colourful and poignant language; complete with evocative poetic as well as prosaic undertones, Sakadelli is a collection of short stories with central themes. According to the author, the lives described in this book are “far from perfect.” On the contrary, they have had their share of sorrows as well as joys, disappointments and exhilaration. “It is a story written from the perspective of the eccentric title character, Sakadelli, who slides in and out of the stories to create a string of evocative, provocative and humorous stories to confront pervasive societal norms. This volume is a mirror which allows us to see ourselves in a humorous way, appreciate our follies and laugh at ourselves while deeply reflecting on the general rules of engagement in life – including living and loving”, the synopsis read. Sakadelli takes the reader from the innocence of bygone childhood to contemporary issues, both peculiar to African society and the world at large. Sakadelli is rated 18, published as a book for young adults as well as older, mature audiences in their roles as parents, guardians and mentors. Some of the stories in this book such as Enyiocha & Enyinocha are reminiscences of a sheltered childhood, complete with doting but stern parents demonstrating tough love, marred by a sudden loss of innocence as a result of war. The piece is rooted in culture, as it takes on other subjects such as gender issues, marriage and the place of the woman and girl-child in a patriarchal African society. In The Virginity Monologue, the sub-plot explores a young girl’s burgeoning sexuality, and the tragic, avoidable errors therein. The book is awash with timeless, light-hearted parental hacks. “In stories like, ‘So the Card Makes it Okay?’ and ‘Retirement Plan,’ the author chronicles a satirical account of the acceptable practice of Nigerians who go to great and often undignified and bizarre lengths to secure residency, citizenship or simply comfortable lives in the United States – often leaving a trail of heartbreak, tears and in some cases, blood,” the synopsis read. Laced with humour, Sakadelli addresses some of the most critical issues of our modern, fast-changing society.