First City Monument Bank (FCMB) recently organised a value-adding initiative to boost the productivity and overall performance of entrepreneurs. The latest was an initiative tagged, ‘Top-5-In-5,’ a digital video knowledge sharing and capacity building series designed to give SMEs practical insight into different areas of business to inspire them to operate optimally and successfully. According to a statement, FCMB indicated that the initiative was one more way it aims to add value to Nigerian SMEs and ensure they can truly #ThriveWithFCMB. The bank explained that the series would run for an initial period of seven weeks, with a new episode released every week. “Each episode will feature accomplished thought leaders and experts across diverse areas of business who will deliver five quality tips in five minutes, to help SMEs explore solutions to specific challenges or pain-points,” it stated. The experts showcased in the series include Managing Director of DCSL Corporate Services Limited, Bisi Adeyemi; Senior Partner at Verraki Partners, Kelvin Balogun; CEO/Founder Naija Startups, Aramide Abe, and Executive Director, Business Development, FCMB, Bukola Smith. Others are Managing Director, CMC Connect, Yomi Badejo-Okusanya; Chief Operating Officer, TISV Digital, Omotolani Tayo-Oshikoya, and Managing Director, FCMB Asset Management, James Ilori. Some of the topics are: Building A Sustainable Business that Outlives You; Differentiating Your Business Through Innovation and Raising Funds For Your Business. The bank revealed that videos and other information on the series, including a section that offers viewers the opportunity to download useful resources, could be accessed via a designated microsite. The bank stated that despite the lockdown, it has continued to engage its customers, especially SME operators through free online trainings, capacity building and empowerment programmes. “FCMB has also gone further to support borrowing business customers by providing payment moratoria (loan repayment holiday) during this period to ensure that they can survive, pay their workers and remain in business,” it added.