Diversifying the revenue base of Nigeria’s economy and creating institutional structures to insulate it from external shocks is urgently required, writes Obinna Chima The Nigerian economy is currently in dire straits with major economic indicators looking grim amidst increasing vulnerabilities. The disruption caused by the COVID-19, which also contributed to the significant drop in the price of crude oil exposed the economy’s weak underbelly. Crude oil represents about 95 per cent of Nigeria’s export revenue and a downturn in the market for the commodity always has a ripple effect on the economy. Clearly, the situation which started as a health crisis has gradually transformed to an economic crisis and has necessitated response from fiscal and monetary policy authorities across the globe, including in Nigeria. In Nigeria, the Central Bank which acted swiftly, almost when the first case broke out in the country, had unveiled a number of policy initiatives aimed at reducing the adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the economy. Precisely, the CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, had announced an extension of the moratorium on the apex bank’s interventions programmes, interest rate reduction, creation of a N50 billion targeted credit facility and credit support for the healthcare industry. Others were strengthening the central bank’s Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) policy and regulatory forbearance. The CBN governor announced a moratorium of one year on all principal repayments, effective March 1, 2020, as well as interest rate reduction on all applicable CBN intervention facilities from nine per cent to five per cent per annum for one-year effective March 1, 2020. He said the total CBN intervention facilities through the Commercial Agricultural Credit Loan Scheme, the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) and the Agric, Small and Medium Enterprise Scheme (AGSMEIS) among others are currently worth about N3 trillion and the new rate cut will apply to all facilities. He further announced the creation of a N50 billion targeted credit facility through the NIRSAL Microfinance Bank for households and small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) that have been particularly hard hit by Covid-19, including but not limited to hoteliers, airline service providers, health care merchants, among others. The central bank also unveiled a N100 billion health sector credit facility for operators in the sector. The health sector facility is expected to provide loans to pharmaceutical companies intending to expand/open their drug manufacturing plants in the country and would also accommodate hospital and healthcare practitioners who intend to expand/build the health facilities to first-class centres. The CBN also granted all banks leave to consider temporary and time-limited restructuring of the tenor and loan terms for businesses and households most affected by the outbreak of COVID-19 particularly oil and gas, agriculture, and manufacturing. In addition, the central bank has been working closely with the banks to ensure that the use of the current forbearance was targeted, transparent and temporary. Also, as part of their response to the economic damaged caused by the pandemic, the federal government had set up a seven-man Economic Sustainability Committee headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, to devise ways to protect jobs and also create new ones after the pandemic. The federal government also issued a set of palliatives to help medium, small and micro enterprises (MSMEs) wade through the current economic fallouts of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to Osinbajo, the palliatives reflected the Buhari administration’s determination to support MSMEs and the priority the federal government placed on small businesses. He listed the measures to include e-Registration of MSMEs/products at 80 per cent discounted rate over a period of six months; Zero tariffs for the first 200 micro and small businesses to register on the e-platform and waiver on administrative charges for overdue late renewal of expired licenses of micro/small businesses products for a period of 90 days. According to the VP, as businesses across the world confront the disruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic, the federal government would continue to adopt and implement practical measures to ensure that the projected growth in the MSMEs sector was not seriously affected by the development. Emefiele, in a recent 27-page speech had described the disruptions caused by the pandemic as an opportunity to re-echo “a persistent message the CBN has been sending for a long time.”