Emma Okonji Former Lagos Deputy Governor, Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu, renowned inspirational speaker, Tope Fajingbesi Balogun and other leading women are billed to Speak at this year’s Dare to Inspire (DTI) mentoring session, scheduled to hold this week Saturday. Dare to Inspire (DTI), an initiative set up to empower, enlighten and elevate young muslim women, presents her fourth edition of the annual mentoring session. This year’s session like the previous editions will provide platform for young women to discuss contemporary topics affecting today’s women. However, unlike the other editions, the event will be held via online Webinar as part of efforts to limit physical interaction occasioned by COVID-19. Participants will have the opportunity to learn from outstanding women leaders and role models.
The theme for this third edition is “Transforming Societies through Active Youth Engagement”. Keynote speaker for the event will be the former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu. The event will also feature three other leading women such as the Founder SHE-EO and Lecturer at University of Maryland USA, Tope Fajingbesi Balogun; Medical Doctor and Founder, The Gift Source, Samiah Oyekan-Ahmed; and Founder, Development Den based in Saudi Arabia, Miriam Elegbede. The convener of the event, Mrs. Bunmi Ghiazat Adebimpe while announcing the event, said: “Due to the global health challenges brought on by COVID-19, and the unprecedented measures taken by governments across the world, we have decided that this year’s edition will be held as a virtual gathering. But it promises to be as engaging and thought-provoking as our previous editions owing to the calibre of experienced women leaders that will be speaking. “In this year’s edition, we will explore how the Nigerian youth can begin to actively participate in the renaissance of our Nation by equipping themselves with the right skills and channelling the latent energy within to transform our societies.”
This event creates opportunity for young women professionals and aspiring entrepreneurs to be mentored, guided and inspired by the success stories and life experiences of seasoned business leaders. The third edition, which was focused on “Muslim Women Inclusion in the Digital World” had in attendance experienced women leaders such as the Lagos State Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf; Founder/CEO Thistle Group, Mrs. Zainab Ini Abimbola; On Air Personality and Host at Television Continental, Nyma Akashat Zibiri, among many others. They explored how young women could acquire the requisite skills and leverage digital knowledge to accelerate their personal development while expanding the frontiers of knowledge for an inclusive growth and development of the society. The event is in partnership with Laroche Foundation; VPcube Studios; The Accubin; Impreme Studios; Fesoda Integrated Services; Superheads International Limited; The MPower Circle; Mustaeina TV; Bedouin; Four 23 Photography; Rubbin Minds; The Umm Fariha Network; Wakeel
Associates; HalTV; KYBevents; DeenTalks Nigeria and ARABEL Exclusive Islamic Materials Ltd.