*Text Box: Says 27 personnel attacked By Kingsley Nwezeh The Inspector General of Police (IG), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has commended the Divisional Crime Office II, Eruwa Police Division, Oyo State, ASP Adeyemo Ogunyemi, for his uncommon restraint and professionalism in the face of unprovoked attack as shown in a viral video, where a woman, identified as Kehinde Afolake, was seen assaulting him unchallenged and without retaliation, while he was carrying out the COVID-19 enforcement duties at Gbolagunte, Okeola area of Eruwa, Ibarapa, Oyo State on May 1, 2020. The Force Public Relations Officer, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Frank Mba, said the officer, “like a lamb being led to the slaughter, did not fight back but rather, maintained absolute calm, patience and decorum even as the woman rough handled him and slapped him severally”. The said woman also assaulted two female police officers, Inspector Ojola Abiola and Inspector Queen Eguaoje, and bit one of them on May 2, 2020 during an attempt to invite her to the police station for the earlier incident of serious assault on the DCO. Mba said: The Eruwa incident thus is a classic example of unprovoked, unwarranted and unnecessary attacks faced by police officers in the course of performing their legitimate duties. The IG therefore warns that this trend will no longer be tolerated by the Force. “The IG notes that since the commencement of the COVID-19 enforcement duties, a total of 27 police personnel have suffered series of attacks and assaults from members of the public at different times and different locations. Many of these officers, he reiterates are still in hospitals receiving treatment from the injuries sustained during such attacks. These include a female police officer, PC Ngozi Nkem, in Agbor, Delta State who was seriously assaulted when a police team was dispersing a group of persons holding a birthday party in clear disobedience to the social restrictions and distancing orders. Apart from the attack on the person of police officers, some of these citizens have equally carried out attacks on police assets and facilities. For example, two police stations and police quarters were attacked and burnt down in Katsina and Abia States while fifteen (15) police vehicles/motorcycles were also damaged.” Mba said Adamu has directed the Commissioner, Oyo State Police Command, Shina Olukolu, to carry out a discreet investigation into the Eruwa attack on the police officers and ensure that justice was done. Mba added: “The IG enjoins the citizens to continue to cooperate with the police and other security personnel and voluntarily comply with all COVID-19 prevention orders. He reiterates that the Force shall continue to hold officers accountable and mete out commensurate punishments on any personnel who violate the rights of the citizens. He however warns against any unprovoked attack and assault on police officers while in the course of their duties as perpetrators will be made to face the full wrath of the law.”