Concept Nova, a technology solution company, has unveiled its Fuel Control System (FCS), a diesel management solution to enable essential service providers to eliminate diesel leakage and theft challenges in their day-to-day operations. The Fuel Control System is a state-of-the-art telematics solution that puts control of stationary and mobile assets in the hands of essential service providers; allowing them to save cost, maintain profitability and meet rising business demands. Giving details of the development, the Managing Director, Concept Nova, Mr. Chukwuma Ochonogor, said: “With the erratic public power supply in the country, many essential services providers such as Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCGs), Pharmaceuticals, Logistics, and Haulage companies and others rely more on diesel for their generators, storage facility, and fleet to stay productive during this period. This is why we are offering our affordable diesel management solution to help prevent diesel leakage and theft occurrences during offloading and refueling of diesel-powered assets.” Giving further details of diesel management solution, Admin and Procurement Manager at a Financial Services firm, Mr. Obi Okafor, said “Diesel is one of the top three expenses incurred by my organisation every year as we rely heavily on our generators for constant electricity supply. For some time, we suspected our diesel suppliers were shortchanging us by not delivering the exact volume of diesel paid for. Using Concept Nova’s diesel management solution helped us confirm our suspicions, get our money’s worth and save millions of naira.” Speaking further, Ochonogor said: “To ensure our customers also save cost while enjoying return on investment on every litre of diesel purchased, the FCS provides real-time reports that help businesses remotely monitor and audit diesel usage trends for accountability purposes.To enable essential service providers to maintain profitability and meet rising demands, alerts and push notifications about changes in diesel levels are also sent via SMS and email.” Concept Nova’s Fuel Control solution has helped many businesses address several challenges by driving continuous improvement to business operations and create value geared towards achieving a connected economy.