With five English Premier League clubs, including Manchester giants-United and City monitoring Chelsea midfielder of Nigerian parentage Faustino Anjorin ahead of a possible swoop for his signature in future and German Bundesliga club Borussia Dortmund also in the midst, the Blues may find it difficult to hold on to the teenage prodigy The England U19 star is one of the most exciting prospects at the Chelsea Academy, and has already played twice for the first team this season, against Grimsby Town in the League Cup and Everton in the Premier League.
\
With the professional contract signed by Anjorin in November 2018 expiring in June 2021, the Blues have offered him a new multi-year contract and everything indicates that he will commit his future to the club. Manchester City have officially watched Anjorin the most in the 2019-2020 season, attending youth team games involving the Anglo-Nigerian teenager. Manchester United have also scouted the highly-rated youngster tipped for big things, while Liverpool, Arsenal and Norwich City are the other Premier League clubs observing him. German Bundesliga club Borussia Dortmund are keeping close tabs on Anjorin and one of their scouts ran the rule over the versatile midfielder before the coronavirus outbreak. He has played nonstop at Chelsea since officially joining the club at U9 level.
Anjorin made his professional debut for Chelsea in their League Cup win versus Grimsby Town last September and was on the bench in the recent Emirates FA Cup win against Liverpool. Chelsea midfielder, Anjorin made history for Premier League Club, Chelsea as he came on in the 7-1 thrashing of Grimsby Town in the Carabao Cup. Aged 17 years, 10 months and two days, Anjorin became the youngest player of Nigerian descent to debut for Chelsea in a UK football competition, breaking the record previously held by Fikayo Tomori (another Nigerian), who was aged 18 years, 4 months and 26 days when he debuted for Chelsea in the Premier League in May 2016. Anjorin was given a chance by the club’s new management team, after the teenager enjoyed a blistering start to the season, scoring five goals in his first seven games for Chelsea’s Under 23- including a brace in the EFL Trophy win over Swindon last month. He is currently Chelsea’s development group top goalscorer, opening his account in the UEFA Youth League, Premier League 2 and the EFL Trophy. Anjorin is a classic midfield powerhouse – who grew up idolising current Blues manager Frank Lampard. Lampard, who has made it his mission to promote the youngstres this term has faith in the raw talent, as does his assistant Jody Morris – and the pair have been impressed by Anjorin’s rapid rise since they arrived in the summer. His progress within the Blues academy has seen him compared to fellow graduate Ruben Liftus-Cheek, who also impressed at youth level. Anjorin was born in Poole to a Nigerian father and a English mum. He was named after the Colombian legend Faustino Asprilla who famously became the first player to score a hat-trick against Barcelona in the Champions League when he was playing up front for Newcastle. By the age of seven Anjorin was scouted by Chelsea and invited to train in their youth set-up before officially joining at the age of nine.
It was a dream comes true for the boy, who idolised John Obi Mikel and wanted to play for the same club. By the age of 16, Anjorin, who stands at an impressive 6ft 1 in, lifted the FA Youth Cup.
Not only was he the youngest player in the Chelsea side that beat Arsenal 7-1, his goal to end the rout was the icing on the cake. Internationally, Anjorin’s form has been equally as impressive as it has for his club, and the FA have high hopes for him. He has played for England at every junior level up to the Under-19’s, but without a full cap to his name there could be a tussle with Nigeria for his services in the future. Both-footed, Anjorin has a contract with Chelsea that doesn’t expire until 2021 but the club is already looking to tie him down to a longer deal. Technically he’s underrated, despite his lanky frame, runs with the ball at pace and is strong in possession. And he’s got decent vision, often able to pick out the perfect pass for a forward to run on to. But it is his finishing that helps him stand out from the crowd. In fact, Jody Morris once revealed he was the “best finisher at the club.” Born in Poole on the south coast of England, Faustino Anjorin has a Nigerian father and English mom and can choose to play for either the three-time African champions or the Three Lions. He was discovered to be very talented at a young age and it was Chelsea that beat other London clubs to the signature of the midfielder. It can be revealed that Anjorin chose to join the Stamford Bridge outfit at the age of seven because they have the best academy in England to this day. An England U18 international, Anjorin has made a big impact for Chelsea’s youth team’s this season, with the highlight being a seven-game scoring run, and was rewarded with a three-year professional deal in November 2018, shortly after he turned 17. Faustino has been utilised in the youth setup and has also debuted for Chelsea’s U-23 team as he is highly rated. The youngster who has represented England at U-16, U-17 and the U-18 level is still eligible to play for the Super Eagles of Nigeria due to his parents and he has not played for the English senior set up.