By Deji Elumoye The President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, and the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, have canvassed for a holistic prayer by Nigerians for a quick end to the dreaded Covid-19 pandemic ravaging not only Nigeria but the world at large. The two presiding officers of the upper legislative chamber in separate messages felicitated with all Nigerians especially the Muslim Ummah on the occasion of this year’s Eid-el-Fitr which marks the breaking of fast and the end of the Holy month of Ramadan. Lawan, in the message personally signed by him, congratulated the Muslim faithful on the successful completion of the fasting period despite the formidable challenge of the Covid-19 pandemic “which stood between us and total observance of key rituals of the period”. He, therefore, urged Nigerians to continue to pray for God’s intervention against all the challenges that confront the nation in particular and the world at large. Lawan stressed that “even as the holy month has ended, I enjoin us to continue to observe the health precautions and sustain the acts of purity, charity, perseverance and tolerance in our daily lives and general conduct”. He further assured Nigerians that the National Assembly will continue to provide the initiatives and responses expected of a responsible Legislature in a vibrant democracy and as an arm of a caring government. According to him, “I wish to specially commend all our healthcare and other essential services providers who are at the front line of the fight against Covid-19 and assure them of full support of their lawmakers and representatives for victory against the vicious enemy.” On his part, Omo-Agege called on Nigerians to be fervent in their prayers for a quick end to the dreaded Covid-19 pandemic. Omo-Agege in his Eid-el-fitr message, also called for prayers for the country to overcome its challenges, even as he charged citizens on peaceful coexistence. The Deputy Senate President, in a statement by his Media Adviser, Yomi Odunuga, said: “I join all Muslims in praying that the world will recover from the prevailing pandemic, that the wounds of division become healed in Nigeria and that all citizens can enjoy the realization of the Buhari administration’s goal of attaining better standards of living.” He also charged Nigerians to draw enduring lessons from the holy month of Ramadan, which includes personal sacrifices and self denial. Omo-Agege noted that the auspicious occasion of Eid el-Fitr does not only mark the end of fasting, kindness and good deeds during the holy month of Ramadan but its global focus on worthy virtues can help lift the world towards being a much better place. He said: “In view of the global Covid-19 health challenge, Muslims are making an unusual sacrifice because they were not able to congregate and perform iftar during this year’s Ramadan. “Today, the health challenge is a test for all our Muslim brothers and sisters but while being unable to congregate, it has enabled them to repair and build stronger bonds with their families, especially as children have been encouraged to join in the prayers and fasting at home. “Nonetheless, Eid-el-Fitr encourages Muslims to reflect on themselves and draw closer to Allah; reflect on the lessons learned during this special Ramadan and show compassion to the less fortunate and needy. During the fasting period, bodies became weaker but the human spirit became enriched.”