By Chuks Okocha The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has extended the sale of nomination forms for the Edo State governorship election. By this, the National Publicity Secretary of PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan said the party extended the last day for the sale of nomination forms from the earlier announced date of Friday, May 29, 2020 to a new date of Monday, June 1, 2020. Consequently, he said that the submission of nomination forms for the Edo State governorship election was now extended from the earlier announced date of Tuesday, June 2, 2020 to Wednesday, June 3, 2020 “All leaders, governorship aspirants, critical stakeholders and members of our great party in Edo state should be guided accordingly,” the party said. Meanwhile, the party yesterday expressed worries over the worsening insecurity in various parts of the country and called on President Muhammadu Buhari to wake up, end the propaganda in his administration and take immediate decisive action to secure our nation. The PDP condemned the bloody attack by bandits who reportedly had field day ravaging communities including Garki, Dan Aduwa, Kuzari, Kutuma, all in Sabon Birni Local Government of Sokoto State on Wednesday’s night in an onslaught in which no fewer than 74 compatriots were killed. According to the party, “It is more distressing that bandits had reportedly taken control of some parts of the state and now hold courts and even grant permission and consent to residents before they can conduct weddings, naming ceremonies or operate their markets.” The PDP also decried similar deadly attacks by bandits in Katsina, Southern Kaduna, Niger, Zamfara, Kogi and other states leading to the killing of many Nigerians despite assurances by the federal government. The party said that it was saddening that despite these manifest security lapses, killings and acts of insurgency in the country, President Buhari had failed to heed to demands by Nigerians asking him to rejig the nation’s security architecture and inject new blood into the system. Accordingly, it said, “Our party holds that the time has come for Mr. President to take a decisive action to address this ugly situation.” The PDP also condoled with Governor Tambuwal and the people of Kogi, Kaduna, Niger, Zamfara states as well as all victims of such attacks in various parts of the country.\