By Kemi Olaitan Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, yesterday, said his administration has completed 307 projects in the education sector, while 236 others are on-going, within its first year in office. The governor, in a state-wide address aired on the Broadcasting Corporation of Oyo State (BCoS), also expressed the confidence that, going by the performance of his administration in its first year in office, the future is, indeed, bright for the state. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, quoted Makinde as also appreciating residents of the state for the trust they have reposed in his administration. He equally urged the people to keep supporting the administration, with a view to making the best decisions for their overall good, noting that in one year, he has remained focused on the goal of developing the state. The statement also quoted the governor as saying that in line with his promise to build on the programmes of past administrations that were structured properly, his administration has, so far, completed 239 projects awarded by the previous administration in the education sector as well as 68 others awarded by his government. Governor Makinde, who maintained that despite the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic, the administration had remained focused and that it has leveraged the setback to improve the health care system, implored residents of the state to keep following the directives of the Oyo State COVID-19 Task Force on social distancing, wearing of face masks and proper hygiene practices. According to him, “It has been one year since we took over office as administrators of the Oyo State Government. And like every administrator knows, there is a time for acting, and a time for accounting. Ultimately, we will be rendering a full account of our stewardship by 2023. But before then, it is only fair and just to mark where we are coming from, so we can determine how far we have gone. As our elders say, when a person embarks on a journey, he should stop from time to time, to ensure he has not strayed from the path. “But, before I share with you some of our accomplishments in the past year, let me take a moment to thank you. Yes, I especially thank every one of you good citizens of Oyo State for your trust and support in the past year. I felt your love when I came down with COVID-19. Your private and public messages and prayers were well received. Again, I thank you. “I have always said that our COVID-19 response in Oyo State will be backed by data, science and logic. So far, these parameters have not failed us. Indeed, despite the international, national and local setback of this pandemic, we remain focused.