Peter Uzoho Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has said he will be marking his 60th birthday and his one year in office today in a low-key manner due to the COVID-19 realities. The governor however expressed deep appreciation to friends and well-wishers who, he said, had demonstrated, through calls and enquires, goodwill and desire to be part of the celebrations as he approaches double milestones on Friday, 29 May, 2020, adding that he will be marking his first year in office as well as the attainment of 60 years of age. Abiodun in a statement issued in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, and signed by him, thanked God for His benevolence on him, the good people of the state for trusting him with the mandate and the tremendous support for him in office, as well as his numerous well-wishers for their affection. According to him, “in view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic and the guidelines to combat the dreaded virus, a low-key approach has been adopted to mark the two events”. He said whilst a number of completed projects across the state had earlier been earmarked for formal inauguration to mark his first year in office, this has now been put on hold. He said in its place, the ongoing activation of completed projects for immediate use and benefits of the people of the state that commenced on Wednesday will continue, saying, in addition, inspection of other on-going projects, with strict compliance with the COVID-19 guidelines, will also proceed. Abiodun said that a compendium of all the administration’s activities in the last one year will be made available and well-distributed and that government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) were further reminded of the extant directive that government fund must not be expended on any congratulatory advertorial. The governor further said” “However, they may publish the achievements of their respective mandates, in line with the guidelines already issued by the One Year Anniversary Committee. “Rather than advertorial placements and gifts, friends and well-wishers (individuals and corporate organisations), are urged to convert funds meant for such gestures to donations and projects that will benefit the generality of the citizens and residents of the State. “In this regard, donations to DA-COVID Account with Access Bank (A/C No. 1392969878) or DA-COVID Account with Wema Bank (A/C No. 0123099840) will be greatly appreciated. All donations to the account will be acknowledged and the proceeds transferred to Ogun State COVID-19 Account. “In the alternative, a public school or Primary Healthcare Centre may be adopted for renovation / rehabilitation under the state’s “Adopt a Project” Initiative.