Ugo Aliogo VerifyMe Nigeria, has entered into a partnership with Jobberman to boost capacity and create jobs despite current COVID-19 challenges. According to a statement made available to THISDAY by the company, the partnership would see Jobberman recruiting verification agents from each state and local government area en masse to create over 30,000 jobs potentially. The statement also stated that the initiative marks the country’s most significant investment in capacity building in last-mile authentication and underlies VerifyMe’s commitment to building the trust infrastructure in Africa. The Chief Executive Officer, VerifyMe Nigeria, Esigie Aguele, said: “We are happy to announce this partnership with Jobberman aimed at boosting capacity for our last-mile verifications across the country but also to create jobs and provide opportunities to people from all walks of life. This is coming on the heels of our growing stakeholder interest in identity verification and KYC as a standard for regulatory compliance and an anti-fraud measure and lending. Expectedly, VerifyMe has seen significant demand for services in eKYC, biometric verification, and Anti-money laundering and CBN complaint verifications. “Additionally, this partnership is significant as it marks a departure from the common verification industry practice. The status quo is to recruit unskilled or low-skilled personnel to carry out these critical investigations with grave implications for the integrity of the data being provided. “We are optimistic that this collaboration between VerifyMe and Jobberman, two market leaders with proven expertise and pedigree in their fields, will empower all stakeholders to build the trusted relationships they need to guarantee their business transactions.” In his remarks, the Chief Executive Officer, Jobberman, Hilda Kragha, said: “We are excited about partnering with VerifyMe on this monumental project which will employ 36,000 young people across the country. Jobberman has set an ambitious goal of linking three million Nigerian youths to jobs in the next five years, and this partnership is a firm step forward in this direction.”