Oluchi Chibuzor The federal government has inaugurated a technical committee on the revitalisation of extension services in Nigeria. The committee is expected to assist the ministry to develop workable framework and actionable programme for the training of 75,000 extension workers in collaboration with states’ Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs). The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono, while inaugurating the committee recently in Abuja, said the agricultural development in Nigeria requires an integrated approach to revive extension advisory services. He charged the committee to design a system of training agricultural extension workers in the next two years and to recommend measures for the upgrading and retooling of extension training institutions across the country. Nanono, stressed the need to review extension services training modules and practices implemented in Nigeria with a view to making them more effective and efficient. The minister noted that the programme would stimulate technology adoption and embed Good Agricultural Practice (GAP) towards improving food requirements and industrial expectations. According to him, as part of the terms of reference, the committee would examine proposals submitted and international best practices in extension services and draw key learning points. “To recommend how to integrate and use the national farmers’ helpline center with six zonal centers for real time information dissemination, updates, feedbacks, and capacity of farmers and relevant stakeholders. “To developing mechanisms for the implementation of recommendations, including monitoring and evaluation and make other recommendation that would help in fast tracking the complete transformation of extension services in Nigeria,” he explained. Responding on behalf of the committee, the Chairman, Director, Extension Services in the Ministry, Engr. Frank Kudla, pledged that the committee would work assiduously to deliver on its mandate. The committee is made up of the following members; Frank S. Kudla, Director, Extension Services, Chairman, Karima I. Babangida, Director, Federal Department of Agriculture, Prof. M.K Othman, Director, NAERLS, Prof. Sani Miko, Director, SASAKAWA, Rose Idi, Resource Person, ADP,Bauchi, Dr. Oyebanji O. Olumide, Resource Person, Umar Wali, Resource Person/HMA Office/Secretary.