By Adedayo Akinwale The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, has congratulated Nigerian Muslims for concluding this year’s Ramadan fast and marking Eid-el-Fitr peacefully. The Speaker urged the Muslims to pray fervently for an end to the Covid-19 pandemic that has been ravaging countries all over the world, including Nigeria. Gbajabiamila, in a statement issued on Saturday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, equally urged them to imbibe virtues such as feeding the needy, being their brother’s keepers and prayers for peaceful coexistence that usually come with the month of Ramadan. He said: “I bring to Nigerian Muslims warm greetings at this season of Eid-el-Fitr. It is a season of remembrance of the good things that the Almighty Allah has done in our lives. “Unfortunately, this year’s Eid-el-Fitr will be celebrated low-key, not for our own making, but that is how our Creator wills it. That is why we all must return to Him in prayers to bring an end to this Covid-19 pandemic. “I enjoin every Nigerian Muslim to be of good character and remain the best of examples, taking after the Holy Prophet (SAW). Let’s also pray for an end to insecurity and other challenges that we face as a nation.” Similarly, the Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives has congratulated Nigerians on the successful completion of the Ramadan fast and called on them to use the Eid-el-fitr celebration to activate the much desired national rebirth. The Minority Leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, in a statement issued Saturday urged Nigerians to ensure that they adhere strictly to all health safety protocols on Covid-19 as they observe the Eid-el-fitr. According to him, “The Eid-el-fitr presents the nation a fresh opportunity for a national regeneration in all aspects of life, particularly as we collectively fight to defeat the Covid-19 pandemic. “As a nation, we must use this period for deep introspection and rekindle the virtues of forgiveness, tolerance, love for one another and commitment to the stability and progress of our dear nation and humanity at large. “Indeed, the successful completion of the Ramadan fast as well as our commitment to prayers and supplications during the period, strongly confirm our individual and collective trust in God in the determination to excel as a united people.”