SOCIETY WATCH With Adebayo Adeoye A few days ago, it was rumoured that the marriage between Ooni of Ife, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Enitan Babatunde Adeyeye Ogunwusi and his wife, Shilekunola Naomi Ogunwusi, had hit the rocks. The news came as a rude shock to many, who could not wait for the royal couple to confirm or refute it.
Perhaps, what gave vent to the unconfirmed report was that, the revered king had previously been in two failed marriages, the last one with Zaynab Obanor Otiti,otherwise known as Olori Wuraola. However, his fans heaved a sigh of relief when the Akure, Ondo State- born Queen wrote a lengthy note to debunk the hideous story. She wrote: “There have been strange rumours and unfounded news making rounds on social media in recent times.
“I want all believers of good news to know that, it is all lies and a picture of how the peddlers of the evil news would have loved our love story to turn out. “I would have loved to maintain silence. However, due to concerns being expressed by well-meaning people something has to be said. Now, the gospel truth is that I have been busy with ministry off the social media space and you’d all agree with me that, with the ongoing pandemic ,which suddenly sprung up on all of us, only means more work needs to be done. “I can’t sit still (as nobody privileged enough should) and this isn’t a time for social media presence but a time that calls for solemnity; hence, my break from what people now call normal. “Finally, as duty will have me do, I have been in and out of the palace doing God’s bidding.
“With all being said, I am compelled to ask the following questions: Why can’t people verify that which is the truth? Why do people believe more in falsehood and negativity? “Well, the Bible has something to say about them in Psalm 2:1-12. Now I say to you all, please disregard and jettison every fake and malicious news about me and my husband (Ooni Adeyeye Babatunde Enitan Ogunwusi) for ours is a love no earthly force is strong enough to break; we are very fine and healthy. I will leave you with this “please be comforted and know that boredom is a killer and people do unimaginable things when they are.” Peace and love always.” It will be recalled that the Ooni unveiled the new Olori in 2018, a day after his 44th birthday. Before then, Oba Ogunwusi, had been allegedly linked to several ladies. Though the ladies, including those simply identified as Abishine, Bolanle Emmanuella Ropo , Tobi Phillips, Temitope Adesegun, Co-Convener of Hope Alive, had reportedly tried to outsmart one another, none was successful in getting his attention as a worthy replacement for Olori Wuraola. But just as many had thought the handsome and youthful king had shut his heart against love he, out of the blues, unveiled his new bride and queen, Shilekunola Moronke Naomi Oluwaseyi.