Bennett Oghifo Cranfield University, a specialist postgraduate institution in the United Kingdom, which specialises in science, engineering, technology and management, has introduced a unit called Energy and Power to train students to become leaders in the energy sector. The course, according to a statement by the University’s representative for sub-Saharan Africa, Mrs Ifeanyi Udofia, would facilitate change, address the continuous use of carbon and create new forms of energy to replace fossil fuel use amongst others. Udofia said, “Cranfield University has a longstanding reputation for training professionals in the energy industry. Our postgraduate degree courses form an extensive portfolio covering all aspects of the diverse, modern energy sector and our full-time postgraduate degrees in energy and power are ideal for ambitious graduates and professionals from Africa and across the globe.” She said in line with providing students with the best experience, Cranfield has close links with leading oil and gas companies, which offers a broad outlook into the oil and gas sector, providing learners with a dynamic environment, and an avenue for growth whilst preparing graduates for the next step in their career. Udofia said the university is well-rooted in energy and engineering studies and is, therefore, offering courses in Advanced Chemical Engineering, Advanced Mechanical Engineering, Energy Informatics, Energy Systems and Thermal Processes, Offshore Engineering, Advanced Process Engineering, and Renewable Energy. The University also offers an MBA Energy course that combines expertise in energy and power with the School of Management’s worldwide reputation in leadership development. In line with providing students with the best learning experience, Cranfield has unrivalled links with industry, and students benefit from extensive contacts and a track record of close collaboration with government and the energy and power sector in the form of industrial advisory panels and project sponsors. The University offers a series of funding opportunities to international students, which can easily be accessed on the Cranfield funding finder page which provides a searchable database of sources of financial support, the statement said. “Cranfield University has longstanding reputation for training professionals in the energy industry.”