As COVID-19 had taken its toll on all segments of the society, FoodCo Foundation, an affiliate of FoodCo Nigeria Limited, has called on corporate organisations and well-meaning Nigerians to extend their gesture to children and orphanages. The Chief Executive Officer of FoodCo Nigeria Limited and a Trustee of the Foundation, Ade Sun-Basorun made this call when the foundation was donating items to orphanages, widows as well as low-income households in Lagos and Ibadan. The items handed- out were care packages which included food items and essential supplies. Speaking, Sun-Basorun stated that the act followed the foundation’s on-going initiative to provide daily refreshments for personnel of the Oyo State COVID-19 Emergency Response Team. He added that the firm remained committed to the vulnerable, being most hit in the pandemic. He said, “COVID-19 has particularly taken its toll on low income households many of whom have had their source of livelihoods disrupted. The United Nations estimates that over 1.6 billion people working in the informal sector, where this group largely belongs and which represents over half of the global workforce, have lost their source of livelihoods since the pandemic started. It is our intention, therefore, to support as many people as we can within the category in line with the overall mission of lessening casualties from the pandemic. “Also, we wish to use the opportunity of this donation to call attention to another vulnerable group, which is the children in orphanages. Understandably, the economic impact of the pandemic has affected the flow of goodwill donations to them. While we acknowledge that these are challenging times, we will like to emphasize that the children need our support now, more than ever.” He also extended appreciation to the Oyo State COVID-19 Emergency Response Team and their counterparts across the country for their efforts in nipping the virus in the bud. The foundation had earlier donated medical equipment to the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, Oyo State to support in the care of COVID-19 patients in state.