By Funmi Ogundare In an effort aimed at marking this year’s Children’s Day, Jordan Hill Creative Writing and Reading Workshop, took time out to celebrate young authors and also launched its maiden edition of Unleashed Magazine.
The celebration tagged ‘Story Fest 2020’, was held virtually and was well attended by young authors comprising school children between the ages of six and 13, parents and other guests.
In his keynote, Media Adviser to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Dr Reuben Abati, said for Africa to develop and compete with the rest of the world, there should be more focus on the youths by catching them young in all spheres of life.
He said an institution like Jordan Hill should be supported by government at all levels, especially the Ministries of Education.
According to him, “Writing is very important, as we live in a world of communication and reading makes a man because it forms an abundance of knowledge. Jordan Hill provides the platform for the young ones to tell their stories.”
He urged parents to identify their children’s gift and continue to encourage them in the art of writing, which he noted, comes with a lot of hard work.
The Chairperson of the occasion, and C.E.O, Corona Schools’ Trust Council, Mrs. Adeyoyin Adesina, advised the young authors to change the world with their writing, adding that every child is born with a gift deposited in him. She said it was imperative for children to have a dream to discover and bring out the gift stored in them, adding that they need to identify a problem in their immediate environment and use their idea to create a solution.
“Your creativity is built through your imagination, the world needs your solution, remember that many children across the world have made great differences, believe in your dreams, develop relationships that can keep your dreams in line with your vision,” she said.
Adesina, who is also a member of the Board of Directors of Corona Education Trust urged them not to limit themselves to school books, noting that it will only give them good grades but to read books about great achievers who have impacted the world.
The Educational Director of Jordan Hill, Mrs.Adeola Eze said this year’s May 27 event is not just about the celebration of children, but of talents that young children possess.
“The theme of this year’s celebration is one not just founded on truth, but it calls for great reflection – ‘One Child. One Dream. One Nation’, It’s no new story that the children of today will become our leaders of tomorrow. How are we giving them the right platforms to develop and cultivate their ideas into plans to move the country forward?”
She urged children not to give up on their dreams and keep pushing at it, adding that someday, they too will be celebrated as one of the world’s greatest.
“To parents she said, “note your childrens interest, it is better to catch them young. Do not delay in helping them to discover their talents early, and take an interest in their ideas. Only then will their confidence peak and their talents shine to the ends of the earth.”
The director urged stakeholders to support in transforming the country’s educational system into one that is centred around the development of the talents of future leaders, stressing that everyone has to be on this journey together, for the sake of the children.
The event featured the presentation of books titled, Elena in the Woods by Mofifunolwa Atilola, Battle of the Heroes by Oluwatito Arije , Moonstones in Wolf Land by Oluwabori Arije, The Life of an Exciting and Brilliant Boy by Temiloluwa Modele, Treasures on the Run- a collection of short stories.
The launch of the maiden edition of Unleashed Magazine, the official brand of Jordan Hill, was termed to be an excellent magazine with rich content for children, parents and teachers by the reviewer, Mrs. Olubunmi Aboderin- Talabi, immediate past Executive Chairperson of WIMBIZ.
Mrs Eze said a lot of thought was put into the magazine, adding that the unique thing about it is that from the front cover to the back flip, all the words and ideas were developed by children and youths, providing the Nigerian youths with the right platform to showcase their creativity and express their passion.