The African Business Coalition for Health (ABCHealth) has announced the appointment of Mories Atoki as Chief Executive Officer, following the unanimous agreement of its Board of Directors. According to a statement, Atoki brings years of experience as senior manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers where she pioneered and led the firm’s Sustainability & Climate Change practice. “With an extensive track record in the field of development and as a recognised sustainability expert, she is a member of the Advisory Board of Partners for Review (P4R), a United Nations supported initiative to standardise sustainable development reporting. “Mories is also an alumnus of Harvard Business School (HBS) as well as the London School of Business & Finance,” the statement added. The Chairman of ABCHealth and Co Chairman of Global Business Coalition for Health (GBCHealth), Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, was quoted in the statement to have said, “Mories’ appointment comes at a critical moment for ABCHealth. We have just finalized a rigorous strategic planning process aimed at transforming Africa’s Health landscape. “Our theory of change now needs to be implemented and Mories has a mandate to successfully drive its implementation.” Also, CEO of Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF) and Board member of ABCHealth, Zouera Youssoufou, said: “Mories has a strong track record for execution, she has good communications skills and great leadership capabilities. Commenting on her appointment, Atoki said: “I am honored and excited to lead ABCHealth. I believe that my appointment as the CEO of ABCHealth has come at a time when Africa clearly needs a strong convener of all stakeholders in Africa’s public and private sectors to facilitate deep partnerships and collaboration all with one end in sight – improving the continent’s health outcomes.” The African Business Coalition for Health is a not-for-profit advocacy driven organisation founded by the Aliko Dangote Foundation and the Global Business Coalition for Health as an African-led coalition of business leaders and companies to improve the health and wellbeing of the African population.