One half of defunct Psquare music group, Paul Okoye aka Rudeboy serves his fans and music lovers a new single titled ‘Woman’. Ferdinand Ekechukwu reports Early this week, Superstar Rudeboy premiered his new single “Woman” exclusively on AKtivated Sessions. The song reiterates the saying that “No one is perfect” and it is dedicated to every woman. In the song, Rudeboy likens relationship to a waving flag, which he says requires a lot of compromise to flow. Woman is a follow up to his 2020 hit song, ‘Take It’ which featured BBNaija winner Mercy Eke as the video vixen. This new smashing Afrobeat/pop record was produced by Chrisstringz, the video shot and directed by the highly creative Amazing Klef. Shortly before the song release, Rudeboy posted on Instagram, saying:….. “Should I just drop it? Cos I really wanna separate the boys from the men musically speaking #musicallyrude by @amazingklef”. King Rudy as fondly called, on this new jam talks to the men who are still single because they are hunting for that perfect woman, someone who is Holy (God Fearing), pretty, hardworking and would never disappoint. Tackling the subject of relationships, the singer is giving pointers on how to get a perfect marriage or relationship with the song. On “Woman,” he lectures that it is impossible to marry a perfect woman but possible to have one if one is willing to build. He sings that people should marry for love rather than perfection. His message is that no woman is perfect, one just have to build one to your taste. “Even the men that want the perfect lady/wife do not have a perfect lifestyle, as all is with flaws. If you want a perfect woman, you have to build her yourself and if you want a rich man, you have to build him likewise, he emphasized in the song. The Fire Department INC boss Rudeboy dropped a couple of hit videos last year. In September 2019, he dropped the visuals for ‘Audio Money’, featuring Shatta Bandle, Ghanaian Instagram personality and self-acclaimed billionaire. His record breaking ‘Reason with Me’ video gathered over 10 million views just a month after release. Paul would then boast of this feat, saying he broke Psquare ‘Bank Alert’ record. Interestingly, one noticeable feature of Rudeboy songs since he went solo is female. The songs Nkemji Keke, Reality, Reason with Me, Somebody Baby and Take It all appeal to the female folks. ‘Woman’ comes off as a popping record and at the same time, gives a more conscious found in celebration of women. Meanwhile, a lot of fans still yarn for the return of the legendary P-Square duo in recent times. The Nigerian singer in a recent post recounted his struggle to limelight, saying he suffered a great deal. Paul had taken to his Twitter page to share a picture of his luxury home, asking Nigerians not to be blinded by his glamorous lifestyle. “I don suffer forget the life style and glamour; when I think back with all the struggles and hustle,” he wrote in Pidgin English while sharing pictures of his luxury home. “How I got to this stage, without going for holidays and trips till date, just strictly doing what I know how to do best ……. I just thank God for life.” Paul’s tweet comes nearly a month after his twin brother and singer, Peter Okoye, revealed that he had nothing when he met his wife Lola Omotayo-Okoye, so as to douse claims that she was the gold digger. In 2017, Peter and Paul (PSquare) agreed to split after they had engaged each other in heated arguments both in public and on social media. The brothers had a disagreement as regards what Peter perceived as lopsidedness in individual input of songs getting featured on their joint albums.