Access Bank has said that its CLOSA Outlets will propel financial innovativeness and boost financial inclusion drive across the country. The bank said the CLOSA outlets would help to bring banking to the doorsteps of every Nigerian, irrespective of location. The drive for financial inclusion has led to the birth of various innovative banking solutions such as the AccessClosa, an agency banking platform which provides financial services to customers right in their neighbourhood. Simply put, customers may have no need of visiting the main bank branches as they can perform all their transactions through the ‘CLOSA’ agents. The ‘CLOSA’ branches have become quite convenient especially during the COVID-19 pandemic when there is a restriction of movement for safety reasons. The Bank is set to commission 10 Access ‘CLOSA’ outlets in six cities in Nigeria. The cabins will be located not less than 3km or more than 20km from the nearest existing Access Bank branch and will offer services such as cash deposits and cash withdrawals (no 3rd party withdrawals), customer on-boarding, funds transfer subject to a limit of N150,000, BVN enrolment, card issuance, card activation, cheque deposit, bills payment, and ATM services. Speaking about the initiative, the Group Managing Director, Access Bank Plc., Herbert Wigwe said: “Access CLOSA was introduced last year, and now, the peculiarities of the Coronavirus has made it even more important to bring banking services closer to our people. Access Bank understands that the risk of transmission is higher in congested spaces and to mitigate this risk, we will be commissioning 10 more banking outlets to serve the needs of our esteemed customers.” He added that the CLOSA banking service was not introduced to replace the existing branches but to support the bank in delivering on its commitment to offer best-in-class service to its customers. “We are not aloof to the threat of the COVID-19 pandemic, and whilst we will do all that is required to ensure branches remain safe for our employees and customers in line with the protocol advised by the health authorities, we urge our customers to leverage on our digital channels in carrying out transactions,” Wigwe said. He also added that the initiative would be managed by Access Bank and Agency banking representatives and that operations were set to begin in Rivers Lagos, Kaduna, Bayelsa, Delta, Anambra, and Kogi states.