Family, friends, colleagues pay tributes at wake Abiodun Eromosele Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, and Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotosho, wednesday commiserated with THISDAY Newspapers over the death of its Judiciary Correspondent, Mr. Akinwale Akintunde. In a condolence message, Mohammed expressed his sympathy to the management and staff of THISDAY over the loss. He also sympathised with the family of the deceased and prayed to God to give them the fortitude to bear the loss. Omotosho said the death of Akintunde came to him as a shock. While praying to God for his soul to rest in peace, he asked God to give the management and staff of THISDAY as well as the family of the deceased the fortitude to bear the loss. It was an outpouring of grief yesterday as colleagues, friends and family members gathered at the residence of the late Akintunde to bid him farewell. At a service of songs held in Lagos, pastors from the church he attended, journalists and neighbours took their turns to testify to his forthrightness, humility and dedication to duty and family. A senior pastor in the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Mr. Kayode Akinwale, who delivered the sermon at the service, described the deceased as dutiful and a respected member of his parish. He urged Christians to live what they preach, adding that nobody knows the time they would die. He said: “We must all live a good life as we don’t know when our time will come. Akinwale’s death shook the entire province with over 150 parishes. He was a responsible member of his parish and testimonies abound about his contribution to the growth of the church.” He urged Christians to always remember the book of Psalms, which says, “Teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts to wisdom.” His Parish Pastor, Ms. Alice Friday, said Akinwale was humble and was respected by everyone no matter their status. “Akinwale was a Sunday school teacher and he lived what he preached. When we heard the news of the accident that claimed his life and we gathered to pray, I saw him waving at us and I realised he is in a better place,” she said. Akinwale’s immediate younger sister, Mrs. Afolabi Morenike, said her brother would be missed by the larger family as he was always on hand to assist whenever the need arose. His neighbour, Mr. Omole Michel, said he was still in shock and found it hard to believe that he had died.
“He was a good neighbour; whenever we have anything to do in the house, he was there. I can tell you that he had been here for sometimes and I have not seen him quarrel with anyone. We lived like brothers and sisters; we are going to miss him a lot,” he stated. Speaking on behalf of his colleagues at THISDAY Newspapers, Mr. Eromosele Abiodun described Akinwale as a friend to everyone. “Akinwale loved his job and was dutiful. He was dedicated and attended to anyone who needed his assistance in whatever way. I have never seen him quarrel with any staff. Anytime you come to the office, he was always seating at his desk doing his work. No matter what you tell him, he would smile and face his work,” he said.