By Onuminya Innocent The Governor of Sokoto State Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has felicitated with Muslims as they celebrate Eidel Fitri. In a state wide broadcast on Sunday, Tambuwal urged them to imbibe the spirit of godliness, perseverance and intercession. He thanked Almighty Allah for His innumerable mercies which made it possible for them to witness this blessed day of Eid-Fitr 1441 AH, after fulfilling the mandatory Ramadan fast. “Fellow citizens, as we celebrate this memorable occasion of the Eid-fitr, may I congratulate all of us for successful completion of the Ramadan fast. Suffice it to say that it had been a soul searching exercise and a rejuvenation of our physical and spiritual dimensions which will strengthen us to face, with all sense of responsibility, our spiritual and worldly affairs”. “It is my prayer that we shall attain the highest reward of Jannatul Firdaus”. He enjoined the people to remain steadfast in imbibing the culture of compassion, honesty and peaceful coexistence, as salient lessons of the Ramadan. He equally saluted the courage of people to complete this years Ramadan despite the challenge posed by the outbreak of coronavirus . “As we are all aware, this year’s Ramadan and Sallah festivities have come at a trying moment occasioned by the debilitating effect of the Coronavirus pandemic on the world. This has necessitated unprecedented changes in our lives, thereby immensely affecting the socio economic wellbeing of humanity. “Though we have had our fair share of those infected by the pandemic, we remain ever grateful to the Almighty for his mercies so far,” he said. He commended the people of Sokoto State for their cooperation in this trying moment stressing that they should not relent in adhering strictly to all guidelines and measures with regards to the pandemic. “Please endeavour to protect the good name that is known of us by being obedient to authority especially the good counsel of His Eminence the Sultan of Sokoto and our ulamas, who in their wisdom resolved that, we observe Eid’el fitr two raka’at prayer in jumu’at mosques instead of the usual prayer grounds. “Women and children are to remain at home and traditional Sallah visitations should be strictly in conformity with the guidelines and measures that are aimed at avoiding exposure to the dreaded disease. Be rest assured all that is being done, is purely in our best interest”. He saluted the courage of the health workers, especially for their dedication and sacrifice, whom he said were the first line of defence against the Coronavirus. “Your role has not only saved many lives but also gone a long way in limiting the spread of the pandemic he stated. He seized the opportunity to express gratitude to individuals and organisations that had assisted the State in cash and kind in the fight against the pandemic. These include CACovid group, BUA, Access Bank, UBA, Fidelity Bank, Eco Bank, Nigeria Flour Mills, NNPC, some members of the National Assembly, Goodluck Ebele Johnathan Foundation and other good spirited individuals. “In the light of these, I would like to acknowledge the efforts and patriotism of our security agencies towards ensuring adherence of the populace to rules and regulations especially the inter state lockdown. We will not rest on our oars in giving you whatever support to achieve your noble objectives,” he said. Tambuwal also commended the federal government for its proactive response to the health challenges of the citizenry, He called on the Flfederal government to take decisive measure against the armed banditry that is terrorising the eastern part of the state. “I deem it necessary to call for drastic and specific measures against armed banditry in some local government areas of the state, where numerous lives have been lost, enormous property destroyed and thousands of our citizens physically and socio economically displaced. He further urged the people to use this auspicious period to increase supplication and prayers for Allah (SWT) to bring an end to all the difficulties and challenges in the tate, nation and the world at large.