Ibrahim Oyewale, Lokoja A settlement of Fulani herdsmen at Ofanwa Elubi Ocharu, Egume in Dekina Local Government Area (LGA), Kogi State came under attack at the weekend, that left three persons and ten cows dead. Consequently, the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MCBAN) has appealed to the Kogi State Government to stop the incessant killings of the Fulani headers in Egume,Dekina LGA. MCBAN’s Chairman in the state, Alhaji Wakili Damina made this appeal at a session with journalists yesterday, revealing that the attack claimed no fewer than three Fulani herders and 10 cows in the settlement. According to him, the incident occurred at about 8:00 a.m. on Thursday when unknown gunmen attacked the Fulani Settlement in the area Damina, who spoke through MCBAN’s Assistant Secretary in Kogi, Mallam Adamu Abubarka, said the unknown attackers came to the Fulani settlement like a flash and killed people and went away. He said similar incident had happened in March when the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ayuba Ede, Igala Traditional Council and other stakeholders met to deliberate on the way forward to live in peace and harmony after a Fulani man was killed. He lamented that the repeated killings of thier members in Igala land “is becoming unbearable. Unlike March, this time around they lunched the attack at their camp. They started shooting at them without any offence at all. “The people of Igala have launched another attack on our innocent members who were gruesomely killed in cold blooded on May 14,” he stressed. He identified those killed in the attack asTine ldris, Fatu Idris, Abdulkareem Saleh and Yusuf Muhammed. Meanwhile, the Kogi State Police Command has confirmed the incident and vowed to bring the perpetrators to book. In a statement by its Public Relation Officer, Mr. William Ayah, the command said in the attack, three persons and nine cows were killed during the attack on the Fulani community. Ayah, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, added that the police commissioner had deployed fully armed men to the area to avoid further attack, stressing that the command had started hunting for the masterminds of the attack.