By Michael Olugbode The Borno State Government has called for assistance from public spirited individuals and corporate bodies in its ongoing battle against coronavirus. The state made the appeal on Wednesday while taking delivery of some relief materials from NASCO Group. The Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr. Bukar Talba, who is the palliative committee chairman for Covid-19, while commending the efforts of the NASCO Group, said its action is worthy of emulation in the ongoing fight against the pandemic. Talba, while disclosing that many other corporate bodies and public spirited organisations have come forward to be counted in this time of need, noted that this is the time for all corporate organisations to support government efforts across the country. The Borno/Yobe Area Sales Manager of NASCO Group Nigeria, Bolomi Samdu, who represented the Executive Chairman of the company, Dr. Attia Nasreddin, said the donation was in pursuant to “ongoing efforts by government to cushion the effects of the Covid-19 induced lockdown on especially our vulnerable persons (including those in designated isolation centers)”. He said: “The Board of Directors and management of NASCO Group Nigeria is pleased to donate some food and hygiene items to the Borno State Government in this regard.” He disclosed that items donated included 500 cartons of HND Biscuits – Banana Flavor, 500 cartons of HND Biscuits – Chocolate Flavor, and 600 cartons of Action Detergent. Meanwhile, the Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum’s palliative distribution train berthed at the highly populated Maisandari ward in Maiduguri, the state capital, on Wednesday during which relief materials for Covid-19 lockdown were given to about 4,000 vulnerable residents. The train, which started its trip at Custom House IDP camp over a week ago, had been to Bolori I and II wards, taken a berth at the weekend in Gwange I, II, and III wards with over 11,000 vulnerable residents of the state befitting from varieties of relief materials. During the early Wednesday distribution at Maisandari, members of the committee, set up by Governor Zulum to relief residents of hardships caused by the government enforced lockdown to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, in its continuation to distribute palliative to all wards in the state, reached out to 4,000 vulnerable residents. Zulum, had two weeks ago, imposed a lockdown as part of efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus in Borno State. He then set up a palliative committee which has so far distributed food at IDP camps and some wards in Maiduguri and Jere Local Governments. The Commissioner for Agric, Mr. Bukar Talba, who is the palliative committee chairman, has led out other 16 members of the committee to carry out the ongoing distribution. The Chairperson of Borno State Emergency Agency (SEMA) and the committee’s Secretary, Hajiya Yabawa Kolo, at Maisandari ward promised that the committee would ensure transparency, accountability and equity in the discharge of its responsibilities. The committee had so far covered Gwange 1, 2 and 3 wards; Bolori 1 and 2 wards; Bulabulin and Mafoni wards and some IDP camps, before Wednesday’s distribution at Maisandari. Thousands of citizens have been given palliatives at the wards already covered by the committee.