Konga said it successfully hosted the first ever live online auction in Africa, which held concurrently across its social media channels and the website, attracting over 25,000 shoppers who participated in the auction. The auction was tagged: ‘Konga Last Price.’
The first edition which, was used by Konga to gauge the appetite of customers and also take stock of areas of improvement, recorded encouraging levels of participation. The auction was hosted live across Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and YouTube. Intense bids were recorded for household appliances such as refrigerators, TV sets, generators and FMCG products among others, as well as devices such as laptops and smartphones, among others.
The next edition of the auction is set to hold on June 1, 2020. Co-CEO, Konga Group, Nnamdi Ekeh, said the success of the debut edition was a sign of better things to come, even as he urged Nigerians to look forward to a better experience with richer product assortment and special pricing during the next edition. ‘‘I want to seize this opportunity to say a big thank you to all who participated in our revolutionary live online auction. I also wish to say congratulations to all who emerged successful with their bids, while also wishing all who lost out better luck next time round. ‘‘This first edition was a success and we are delighted to have made history in hosting the first ever live online auction in Africa. The huge response and participation we witnessed is testimony to the fact that Nigerians are in tune with the exciting innovations we are rolling out to further excite the market. For this, we are grateful. On our own part, we promise to continually up the tempo in order to make Konga Last Price a truly unforgettable experience,’’ Ekeh said. Konga Marketing Lead, Ajibola Olayiwola, said: ‘‘For now, we will retain the Konga Last Price as a monthly event. However, Konga is an organization which takes the satisfaction of its customers very seriously. So, we will be discussing this internally with a view to making it a more regular affair for our customers to benefit from.’’