By Ugo Aliogo One of Nigeria’s financial service technology company, Opay, has joined Nigerians and the government in rolling out a series of anti-pandemic and relief efforts. The latest is its support for the Lagos State Government’s recently launched initiative #MaskUpLagos, to curb the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria. As part of its #DoMore initiative, OPay has donated 40,000 medical masks to the state government, with a commitment to donate another 200,000 masks to needed entities in the coming weeks. A statement signed by the company said the presentation of the masks was made recently at the state warehouse facility in Lekki, Lagos, and was received by the Commissioner for Transport, Dr. Fedrick Oladehinde, on behalf of the state government. Oladehinde remarked that: “On behalf of the Lagos State Governor Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, we would like to express appreciation to OPay for their donation. It is coming at the right time and we are about to open up Lagos and the facemask is very vital in protecting people from COVID-19.” Dr Oladehinde added that with strong collaboration, a lot would be achieved, while expressing delight that the private sector is joining forces with the state government to fight the pandemic. On his part, the Director of Partnerships at OPay, Oladipo Omogbenigun, said: “The fight against the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria should be a collective effort. That is why OPay is proudly supporting the Lagos state government’s initiatives. We hope to continue in a similar fashion.” In his remarks, Opay, Country Manager, Iniabasi Akpan, noted that “OPay is firmly committed to Nigeria, and we are conscious of the fact that our growth and success is intertwined with that of Nigerians. As a leading mobile money platform in Nigeria, we will mobilize our resources to help in overcoming the COVID-19 virus in Nigeria and the threat it poses to the health and economic wellbeing of Nigerians who are well known as a resilient people.” The statement added that the donation was one of the numerous Opay’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts happening in the coming weeks. The statement maintained that OPay would utilize its international network, finance, and digital and agent platforms, to contribute to the anti-pandemic efforts. The statement said: “In a bid to support the fight against the spread of COVID-19, OPay has dedicated a section of their app to deliver facts, safety and prevention tips to its 5 million-plus registered app users in addition to real-time updates.”