Omololu Ogunmade in Abuja The presidency thursday gave the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari a positive rating, five years after it came into power. In an assessment released to mark the fifth anniversary of the administration, it said the president had made notable impacts in all spheres of the country since he came to power. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, in a statement to commemorate the one year of the president’s second term in office, which comes up today, said the administration, acting on its campaign promises, launched into action from May 29, 2015 had brought change in the areas of security, economic growth and anti-graft war. He said: “Between May 29, 2015, when it was inaugurated for the first term, and now, the Buhari administration has made salutary impact in almost all the facets of Nigerian life. “The government swept into office on the wings of change and that change has been wrought in nearly all phases of national life. Where the lofty goals are yet to be attained, it is work in progress, and eyes are firmly fixed on the ball. No distraction. “The three umbrella areas on which government based its interventionist agenda are: security, reviving the economy (with particular emphasis on job creation, especially for youths) and fighting corruption. In these three areas, where we are today cannot be compared with where we used to be.” Adesina, who attached documents containing activities of the government, gave a few details of the performance of the government in the statement so far. According to him, “By May 2015, insecurity had badly fractured the fabric of the nation. No one could wager that the country would survive the next month, not to talk of another year. “Bombs went off like firecrackers, insurgents ran riot round the country, other forms of crime and criminality held sway. Life was nasty, brutish and short. “Over five years, the battle has been taken to insurgents and criminals. And they are being extinguished by the day, and very close to complete extirpation. “The economy, long dependent on a mono product – petroleum, is being retooled, refocused, with diversification as a task that must be accomplished. Agriculture has been given a fillip, manufacturing has got a shot in the arm and solid minerals are contributing a large chunk to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The country is very close to food security, with rice, beans, maize, millet, and all sorts of grain no longer imported. We now eat what we grow. “On the war against corruption, no quarter is asked and none is given. Commit the crime, do the term. No retreat, no surrender.”