Security officer using one of Emzor cares’ products By Martins Ifijeh As part of measures to address the community transmission phase of COVID-19 in Nigeria, Emzor Pharmaceutical Industries has rolled out its COVID 19 response programme, tagged Emzor CARES. In a statement made available to THISDAY recently, the Group Business Manager, Emzor Pharmaceutical Industry, Ogun and Lagos, Chinyere Kelvin said the programme includes series of interventions to complement the various measures of government and create the needed succour at various touch points with the public. She said: “Emzor also plays a support role by continuing production in all of our four factories in both Lagos and Ogun states, providing healthcare products to Nigerians during this pandemic. Our goal is to continue to keep Nigerians safe by providing immune-boosting medications like vitamins, supplements and nutritional oils. “The Emzor CARES Programme demonstrates our support and celebration of the front-line workers (the Police, LASTMA, FRSC and LSNC). In meeting the increasing demand for face masks as a vital protective measure against COVID-19, we are also reaching out to pharmacies, hospitals, customers and local communities with donations of relief and protective items. Beneficiary hospitals include Kupa Medical and Isolo General Hospitals. We have also sent palliatives to communities in Isolo in Lagos and Shagamu in Ogun State.” According to her, Emzor has provided Nigerians with health and wellness products for over 35 years, adding that as an indigenous company, it was leading by example with more than 120 quality healthcare products to its name. She added: “We have recently commenced production at our new ultra-modern factory at Shagamu. The world class factory is in compliance with World Health Organisation standards which adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) protocols. “With this development, we are poised to play a key role in supporting the Nigerian government to meet the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the health sector. This represents a major milestone in our nation’s journey towards health self-sufficiency,” she said.