Popular auto magnate and Managing Director of Vision Wheel, Adebayo Adesola, has been in mourning since death, in its raw wickedness, plucked life out of his mother, Iwalola Caroline Oluwajedalo Adesola, on May 1, 2020. However, the businessman, aware that his mother lived a fulfilled life before her death, pulled out all the stops, as he and his siblings gave their beloved mother a befitting burial at the Vaults and Gardens, Ikoyi, Lagos yesterday. The deceased, it was also gathered, would have turned 71 yesterday when she was buried. The ceremony was carried out by the popular undertaker, Ebony Funerals.
In an emotional tribute, the multimillionaire businessman said his mother would be remembered for her compassionate nature, her giving spirit and her unwavering devotion to God. According to him, “Today would have been your 71st birthday, but instead GOD chose to make it the “celebration of your life” and your committance to Mother Earth. How we wish you had stayed longer, so you could reap much more for sacrifices you made while raising us. But He is an unquestionable GOD. Even death could not take away your smile. Rest in your Father’s bosom as you foretold before you passed. Rest in Peace my Dear Mother’’ The late Adesola was born on the 9th of May, 1949 to the family of Alhaji Alli in Owo Local Government, Ondo State into a polygamous family. The deceased, who was only allowed primary education, would later learn tailoring. Thereafter, she moved to Lagos at age 17 and got married to Samuel Adesola , an engineer, with whom she had six children. She was a committed and devoted mother that would do anything to see her children thrive. Her sacrifices eventually paid off, as her children became successful in their respective fields. In 2003, her lifelong dream of going to school was fulfilled. She enrolled in an adult learning school, where she was taught to read and write. She spent the greater part of the last decade enjoying the fruits of her labour, travelling the world, taking care of her grandchildren and even acquiring an American green card. She also became a philanthropist, taking care of widows and orphans all around Lagos and in her church. She was diagnosed with cancer during a summer trip in 2015 and underwent intensive treatment till her cancer was in remission. But she suffered a relapse five years after. It will be recalled that her 70th birthday in 2019 was everything she dreamed of and so much more. Her children celebrated her with a superlative birthday party, which was graced by the friends and family, home and abroad.