Stallion Group Nigeria has launched an online portal, known as Stallion Africar, to help meet customer-expectation during the COVID era. A statement by the group said Stallion Africar would also provide the customers tools to take an informed decision on the choice of car in their budget and link them with a virtual relationship manager to guide them through the chat functionality. The portal, the statement said, offers an opportunity to do cross-selling and upselling and it reduces their dependence on driving or walking in traffic to the point of sale. The simple design of Stallion Africar enables the consumer to take a decision on buying a new car and servicing their existing car. It is expected to add the feature of buying a pre-owned car, where the consumer can get their old car evaluated and uploaded to get the best deal and exchange it for a new one. The portal navigates through each of the top selling auto brands of Hyundai, Honda, Nissan, Porsche and Changan. “Each brand’s highlight model is displayed on the home page with the portal navigating to a detailed page containing specification, price and the consumer’s ability to book a test drive for their favorite car just at the push of a button. “The car is brought in to your home or work place keeping the safety and hygiene measures in mind for the test drive to conform with social distancing guidelines to the maximum. The portal allows you an access to compare features, aesthetics and price across major brands and models to arrive at what’s best for you and your family,” according to the statement. The relationship does not end at buying the ideal car, as Stallion Africar has a servicing tool that is designed to provide information on each brand’s service centers, indicating locations across Nigeria with details pertaining to the right contact personnel for each of the locations along with their emails and phone numbers for those who desire to book service appointment and get the best quality of care for their car. “The service personnel are trained on sanitization and handling of the car affirming to the safety from COVID 19 guidelines. At grounds daily practical workshops and training are being conducted to adhere to stringent guidelines for health and safety of the customer. “Stallion Group marks this launch as its journey to the e-commerce bubble that is emerging with the current economical shift. It is an encouragement to the Nigerian community to experience acquiring their dream car in this new era and see the amalgamation of the digital age with the physical joy of buying,” the statement said. Stallion Group said it has always aimed at maximising consumer loyalty across the country and now is no exception. The multi-brand auto giant believes that a sizable business will be brought in through digital initiatives as consumers are still skeptical of stepping into showrooms to scout for the car of their dreams.