Abobade Idris Olalekan, popularly known as Kobi Mighty, a lifestyle influencer and record label owner has called on relevant agencies to provide some form of bailout for entertainment investors and stakeholders in the country. Speaking recently on a virtual media chat, Kobi Mighty stressed that the pandemic had affected businesses negatively and that his artistes have not been able to perform at public gigs or make money for over eight weeks. He, therefore, called for a bailout from the Federal Government and relevant agencies, whereby businesses and investors could apply and be granted a lifeline. “I invested a lot of money in the label, signing artistes and hoping they could record new music and videos immediately. Due to the pandemic, we have been unable to work in groups and majorly now work via virtual conferencing. I had paid for various projects ahead before the effects of the pandemic spread worldwide and so a proposed trip to South Africa was canceled. My artistes have to feed and I am responsible for that. We really need a lifeline”, he said.
When asked how he had been coping, he attributed his survival to personal savings and the grace of God. Kobi Mighty was born in the mid-eighties and is presently one of the few record label owners and influences from the city of Ibadan. He was born into the royal family of Kobiowu in Ibadan and is a business man, widely travelled tourist and a general merchant. He had his primary education at the Unity primary school, Amuwo-Odofin and proceeded to Odofin secondary school. After his secondary education, he enrolled at The Polytechnic Ibadan (Eruwa campus), where he studied Business Administration after which he travelled to the United Kingdom to The London School of Business and Finance for a professional course.. Before the lockdown in February, his record company was on the verge of a huge collaboration with a South African Entertainment company, a deal that is set to benefit countless of talents in Nigeria and Africa.