By Ibrahim Shuaibu The Coordinator (Technical) of Kano COVID-19 Task Force Committee, Dr. Tijjani Hussaini, yesterday, lamented the non-compliance of some suspected COVID-19 cases who decline from giving information on their status. Dr. Tijjani who stated this during Kano State Task Force on COVID-19 press briefing at Africa House, Government House, said the task force was confronted with the challenge of getting some suspected cases to go for testing and treatment during contact tracing. According to him, some of the suspected cases outrightly deny contacts with infected persons or refuse to divulge information on the real status of their health. Also speaking during the briefing, the Leader of the Ministerial Technical Team on COVID-19, Dr. Sani Gwarzo commended the state Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje for his resoluteness in fighting COVID-19. Dr. Gwarzo who said he was impressed over Ganduje’s daily and consistent participation in all programmes and activities laid down to battle COVID-19, urged other state governors to borrow a leaf from Ganduje. The Leader of the Ministerial Technical Team also expressed appreciation to Ganduje for putting in place all the required facilities needed to confront and combat the disease. Dr. Sani also expressed delight that Ganduje, apart from ensuring adequate public enlightenment has also provided free face masks to residents, describing the gesture as a step towards the right direction. He added that, “we are impressed over the number of people being discharged from Kano Isolation Centres in Kano. The level of awareness has also made people to willingly come forward for testing. This is very encouraging and we are happy with the way Kano is handling issues as regards to fighting the COVID-19 pandemic.” Also speaking, the chairman of Kano Task Force on COVID-19, Dr. Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna who is the Deputy Governor of the state reminded the people that testing positive to COVID-19 was not a death sentence. He pointed out that what remained important was for people to strictly adhere to instructions given by health professionals on how best to prevent the deadly COVID-19 pandemic. While commending security at agencies for ensuring the enforcement of the lockdown order, Gawuna said the Task Force had been working round the clock to enlighten the people, adding that, “we have been in contacts with the Ulamas and traditional rulers; and they doing their best to help fight the spread of the virus by sensitising the people.” In his address, Ganduje thanked the Ministerial Technical Team for making Kano the centre for training of other health workers across the North. Ganduje noted that more efforts would be galvanised to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic. He said plans have been concluded to open more testing centres across the 36 distant Local Government Areas across the state. “We must open more testing centres in the 36 distant Local Government Areas. We will keep on planning ahead. We need to be proactive. We will make sure that all the institutions are put in place so that when the time comes, we will not be taken unawares.” Ganduje further hinted that his administration was also making plans to partner with Kano Against COVID-19 led by A.B. Mahmoud (SAN) to enhance community enlightenment and other strategies in the fight against the Corona Virus pandemic. Ganduje also urge health workers to pay attention to other health challenges facing the people, adding that his administration has trained hundreds of health workers to fight the COVID-19 and tackle other health challenges in the state.