By Hammed Shittu The Emir of Ilorin and Chairman, Kwara State Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, has charged Nigerians to continue to pray fervently for economic prosperity, peace and unity in all facets of the nation’s economy. This was contained in a statement issued in Ilorin on Sunday by his Media Aide, Mallam Abdulazeez Arowona, shortly after observing the Eid-el-Fitr rakat prayers along with members of his immediate family in his palace marking the end of this year’s Ramadan fasting in line with the Covid-19 safety protocols of the federal government. He noted that the growth and development of any nation depends heavily on the harmonious working relationship among her citizens. The monarch also implored Muslim faithful to imbibe the culture of tolerance, patience, charity and perseverance as preached in the Holy Quran and teachings of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH), adding that the Ramadan fasting has left behind good legacies worthy of adopting always. He added that the stay-at-home and movement restriction orders which have affected the convergence of worshippers at the Central Yidi praying ground remain the best option in a bid to further curtail the spread of Covid-19 in the state. Sulu-Gambari also emphasised the need to always uphold and promote the principle of love among the people of Ilorin Emirate and beyond irrespective of their political affiliations and religious beliefs. Speaking further, the Emir thanked all those who contributed to the palliative programme which he initiated towards supporting the less privileged in the society, maintaining that “there is need to always complement government’s efforts especially at this critical period of global pandemic”. He however commended the state Governor, Mallam Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, for his efforts and contributions to the state since his assumption of office and prayed Allah to guide his administration for the good and progress of the state and humanity in general. Also, the former Minister of Youths and Sports, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, has enjoined Muslims to use the just concluded Ramadan fast to pray for the quick economic recovery occasioned by the ravaging Covid-19 pandemic in the world. In a statement issued in Ilorin on Sunday to mark the Eid-fitr celebration, Abdullahi said that Muslims should continue to pray for an end to the pandemic so as to boost the socio-economic growth of the nation. He said that the ugly development called for fervent prayers and all Muslims and other non Muslims should join hands to continue to pray for an end to the pandemic.