President Muhammadu Buhari has commended public-spirited Nigerians and organisations for their financial and material support in the ongoing fight against COVID-19 Pandemic. In a statement Friday by the Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media & Publicity), Mallam Garba Shehu, President Buhari specifically cited “the provision of isolation, treatment and laboratory centres/facilities by individuals and companies such as Alhaji Aliko Dangote, Alhaji Abdulsamad Rabiu, Guaranty Trust Bank, THISDAY Newspapers and Partners, among others in several states and Federal Capital Territory.” Buhari however called on other privileged Nigerians and corporate bodies to emulate these laudable gestures. “We are facing a national challenge and all hands must be on deck to navigate this difficult course. In this respect, all types of assistance are welcome, big or small. The spirit behind the contributions is salutary,” the statement quoted the President. The statement further said: “Records obtained from the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation about lodgements from 111 individuals and organisations into the FGN Covid-19 Eradication Support Accounts in the five designated banks between April 1-30, 2020, indicated the total sum of Six Hundred and Ninety Seven million, Five Hundred and Thirty-Eight Thousand, One Hundred and Eight Naira only (N697, 538, 108.00). “The above consists of small payments of N5, N10, N14, N20 by individuals to huge deposits of N200 million by Dantata Property Development; N100 million by Ocean Trust Ltd; N25 million by NSITF; N20 million by Ebele and Anyichuks Foundation; N15 million by Nizamiya Hospital Abuja; and N10 million each by Full Gospel Business Men’s Fellowship and Association of Bureau De Change (BDC) respectively, among others.” To help Nigeria tackle the COVID-19 pandemic which has claimed over 100 lives, individuals and corporate bodies have been making donations both in cash and materials. THISDAY and ARISE Media Group in association with notable partners donated a Treatment and Isolation Centre in Abuja as a contribution to the fight against Coronavirus in the country. The centre, located at the THISDAY Dome in the Central Business District, Abuja, has the capacity for 320 beds which could be scaled up to 500 beds if the need arises. The partners in the project are the Sahara Foundation, the Corporate Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID), African Finance Corporation and the Chinese Civil Engineering and Construction Company, which handled the internal partitioning amongst others.