By Yinka Kolawole Sequel to the relaxation of the lockdown imposed by Osun State Government, the State House of Assembly has made the use face mask compulsory for workers and visitors to the complex. The Osun House of Assembly at an executive session resolved that putting on face mask among other precautionary measures in and around the assembly was sacrosanct to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The Speaker, Hon. Timothy Owoeye in a statement yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Alabi, said that the use of simple cloth face coverings will slow the spread of Coronavirus and help people who may have the virus and do not know it from transmitting to others. Owoeye stressed that the major criteria for accessing the State House Assembly complex henceforth shall be the face mask, saying the step taken by the state parliamentarians would assuage the fear of contracting the virus as the assembly resumed full legislative activities with essential staffs after the lockdown. According to the Speaker, “As we are all aware that the assembly has resumed fully for legislative activities with very few senior cadre of workers inspite of the ravaging Coronavirus, this was borne out of the need to support government in the fight against the pandemic. “The lead agenda of the 7th Assembly is quality legislation that will impact the lives of Osun people, in order to assuage the fear of people contracting the virus while we resumed, it has become imperative that everyone coming to the assembly must wear face mask. It is going to be, no face mask, no entry. “It is the resolution of the assembly that if everybody wears a face mask, we will be mutually protecting each other. Wearing a face covering is just one additional step that we can take to stop the spread of the virus, but it is not a replacement for other important protective measures, such as washing hands and social distancing.” The Speaker charged Osun citizens not to trivialise matters associated with the Containment of community transmission of the virus and that all hands must be on deck to ensure that covid19 pandemic is brought to an end.