A coalition of Civil Society Organizations (CSO’s) has commended President Muhammadu Buhari on the appointment of Prof. Godswill Obioma as the National Examination Council (NECO) boss. Before his appointment, Obioma was the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Ebonyi state. The Executive Director, Conscience Nigeria, Tosin Adeyanju who led the coalition signed a statement in Abuja in sying the appointment is a welcome development that has the capacity to positively turn around the fortunes of the agency. He declared that the nation and all stakeholders would in no time be proud of his giant strides at NECO. “Obioma is bringing on board a rich wealth of experience in the educational sector as a former Executive Secretary of Educational Research and Development Council(NERDC) and Director at the Universal Basic Education (UBEC). “We have no doubt in our minds that the appointment is one of the best decisions to have been made to reposition our educational sector in recent times. “We have simply put a round peg in a right hole this time around. We equally want to advise Mr President not to entertain the blackmail of the member representing Ezza-South/ Ikwo Federal Constituency of Ebonyi State, Hon. Chinedu Ogah who recently issued a statement asking for Obioma to be dropped because he did not know the history of this upright man. “His statement further buttresses the fact that Obioma was incorruptible in the discharge of his duties as Ebonyi REC which must have necessitated his appointment by Mr President.” The statement said: “This track record is what our President stands for and that is what Professor Obioma has exhibited in all his public service engagements”.
“This is the major reason why he has been saddled with onerous responsibilities at all times and the recent one is not supprising to us in the Civil Society Community”. Adeyanju called on the general public to discountenance what he described as the “ranting of the honourable whose responsibility is law making and not to question worthy appointments of President.