By Hammed Shittu Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, yesterday said that, his administration would soon roll out new state master plans in economy, energy and agricultural sectors. Speaking with newsmen to mark his 365 days in office yesterday, the governor said that the gesture would allow the people at the grassroots to have more dividends of democracy at their doorsteps. According to him, “it is also a part of strategy to advance the socio economic growth of the residents and thereby enhance their wellbeing.” He also said he would not share money to them as was the practice in the past but would spread development to all the nooks and crannies of the state. AbdulRazaq noted that it was the past administration’s penchant for sharing money that put them into trouble and their consequent failure in the last year’s general elections. He assured the workers in the state of his commitment to implementing the N30,000 minimum wage, adding that “my concern, however, is how the local governments would be able to implement the new wage for their workers.” He praised President Muhammadu Buhari for granting the state legislature and judiciary autonomy, saying that the development would relieve states of huge burden. On his achievements in the past one year, AbdulRazaq said 35 roads across the state were under reconstruction while five water works had been rehabilitated and were now supplying residents with water. He added that his administration had also restored the lost glory of the education sector through payment of necessary counterpart funds to the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) saying “we have paid N8 billion counterpart funds and with this we will be able to access N16 billion from UBEC.” He also disclosed that arrangements were in top gear to revamp the three state-owned media outfits- The Herald, Kwara State Broadcasting Corporation (Radio Kwara) and Kwara State Television Service (KWTV). The governor also hinted of plan for downward review of the 2020 budget from N 160 billion to N120 billion, due to plummeting prices of crude oil in the global market which has led to shortfall in the federation allocations to states. AbdulRazaq who thanked the people of the state for their support thus far, assured them that his administration would not renege on its promise to make Kwara work again and leave it better than it met it.