Vanessa Obiora What started as a passion for lawyer and entrepreneur Aisha Ochuwa has evolved into a notable jewellery brand, catering to hundreds of people across the country The first thing that catches one’s attention on Aisha Ochuwa’s Instagram page is the beautiful array of jewellery. From anklets, pendants, rings to earrings, the social media page of the lawyer is home to different ornamental pieces. However, the affordable prices of the jewellery is a major attraction to customers who besieged her page. An accessory can cost as low as N500. For instance, one can get small silver hoop earrings at that price. The ornaments come in different designs and are from notable brands like Gucci. Gradually, Ochuwa’s passion for jewellery which started as a person-to-person sales has become a booming online and offline jewelry wholesale and retail store known as Everything Beautiful by Aisha Ochuwa. It was in 2017 that the lawyer who is an associate with Prescott Parsons Partner Lagos, in its corporate and commercial department, took the bold steps to foray into business. “I’ve always had a flair for business, and this interest made me want to have a solid legal knowledge about how businesses work. Since I wanted to venture into business, I saw studying law as a tool to enhance and solidify my productivity in business ventures,” she explained. The registered company caters to the fashion needs of all sexes, delivering unparalleled quality fashion products like bracelets, earrings, necklaces, waist chains, and others to millennials at very affordable prices created with the customers in mind. As the Creative Director of her brand, Ochuwa is keen on building a strong online presence. Already, she has over 38,000 followers on Instagram. “We are leveraging on this to expand into an E-commerce store that will offer a plethora of the same unparalleled and super comfortable jewelry quality to everyone. That way, people can visit our sites and pick out items they want, checkout, and have them delivered.” With the ever dynamic needs of customers, Ochuwa is committed to offering her customers the best in jewellery sets and designs.