Enugu State Government yesterday launched the distribution of one million units of fabric face masks to its residents across the 17 local government areas for protection, free of charge. The face masks were produced by the state government using fabrics by indigenous traders and trained tailors as a means of socio-economic empowerment. Consequently, it is expected that over 30,000 youths will be empowered through the production of the face masks. Presenting the items to the public, the Deputy Governor of Enugu State, Hon. Mrs. Cecilia Ezeilo, said that the gesture was a demonstration of the “unique leadership of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi”, his administration’s proactive response since the outbreak of the pandemic as well as “his deep empathy and concern for all, especially the vulnerable.” Mrs. Ezeilo disclosed that the event, which was witnessed by the Speaker of the State Assembly, Rt. Hon. Edward Ubosi, the Chairman, Enugu State Council of Traditional Rulers, HRH Igwe Amb. Lawrence Agubuzu, and the State Chairman of Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), Hon. Solomon Onah, among others, was also a means of creating awareness on the compulsory use of face masks by residents of the state as well as all other precautionary measures aimed at containing the spread of the viral disease. The Deputy Governor who advised that the cloth face masks must washed often and ironed, added that “those caring for the ill, those already experiencing respiratory symptoms, like coughing and sneezing, the elderly and those with chronic and underlying medical conditions, must wear medical face masks and not cloth face masks.” She maintained that Governor Ugwuanyi’s administration had remained in the frontline of tackling the COVID-19 and combating its inherent socio-economic challenges as well as other issues through the provision of palliatives to cushion its adverse effect on the vulnerable and implementation of economic and health related measures. “Let me reiterate that this face mask that we are being strongly persuaded to wear is a Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) designed to protect us and our dear ones and reduce our exposure to contagious and infectious health hazards, such as COVID-19 and its harmful effects that could include death. “So I tell you in plain language and with all the emphasis at my disposal, wear your face mask always and correctly”, she further advised.