Healthy skin and beauty is a quickly developing business in Nigeria. This has driven Miss Igbinoba Osasenaga Jennifer, CEO, Jenny’s Glow Skincare & Entreprises, into getting one of Nigeria’s best skincare and excellence business visionary. She saw a hole in the market and hooked onto it. She found that there was an immense hole in the market for skincare product at a progressively reasonable cost. Having invested a great deal of energy figuring out how to make appropriate skincare product, it before long turned out to be certain that there was a speciality in the market prepared for what she was creating. She enrolled her business with the Corporate Affairs Commission in 2017 and proceeded to assemble her image in Benin City. She additionally relates how she began from the scratch with assistance from loved ones. Expressions of mouth and proposal have likewise been fundamental to her growing a solid client base. Throughout the years, she has taken in a lot about characteristic healthy skin and she is glad to state her image has gotten one of the most selling Nigerian skincare and magnificence Product. Her product is focused at the prospering healthy skin and beauty’ in the market. Similarly, as with each different business that requires genuine endeavors and a solid drive for progress to scale through hindrances, Jenny’s Glow additionally portrayed her beginning of discovering trust in the most testing profession way. To her, maintaining a skincare business includes a lot more difficulties. Thinking back she relates her modest beginnings and how she moved from base to top. The 27-year-old Edo indigene is said to have spent her youth in Oredo Local Government of the state where she went to India Girls College, Benin City. She later went on to complete her education at the Ambrose Alli University (AAU) Edo state. Miss Igbinoba Osasenaga Jennifer began her business, Jenny’s Glow, with 200,000 naira. Today, her business has developed into a multi-million Business. She has many staff in her company. Her product has been intended to treat different issues with quicker acting definitions. She has constructed a fruitful business and has made the most of chances in healthy skin business to build up a pay making adventure. Over the years, she has learned a great deal about natural skincare and she is proud to say her brand has become one of the most selling Nigerian skincare and beauty product across the country. Her product is targeted at the burgeoning skincare products’ market. For most business people, earning fortune and fame are the ultimate goals, but not for her. The Jenny’s Glow Entreprise boss had to do something that would bring greater meaning to her life. She was committed to creating her own niche with a phenomenal skincare product that has gained widespread approval and recommendation among clients. The Jenny’s Glow boss has got rewards for the fruits of her labour, which is very important to her. It gave her a sense of accomplishment to be part of the people encouraging entrepreneurship. The present world isn’t one that urges anybody to sit with arms folded. She needs young school leavers to acquire entrepreneurial skills, which can be used as a means of generating extra income.