It is reported that Folake Ani-Mumuney graduated from the university at the age of 15. No mean feat for a young lady at that time, that accomplishment was the beginning of her distinction in every endeavour. Nearly 40 later, she is still rocking the boats of tradition and expectation with an Amazonian grace. Only a few days past, Folake Ani-Mumuney celebrated her 52nd Birthday. As usual, the celebrations were a far cry from the norm—the approach she takes to everything, it seems. Rather than raise rackets over the Day, she reached out to those in need and made them as happy as she was. Folake Ani-Mumuney at 52 is a natural force in the corporate environment. When it comes to brilliance and quickness of mind, the lady is like lightning in a dark storm. Folake Ani-Mumuney is one of the dwindling few who have found the balance between an innate intelligence and business smarts. Moreover, because her gifts have been refined by diligence and thoughtfulness, she has never been one to intimidate or impersonate—not even as a champion in the corporate jungle. In November 2019, Folake Ani-Mumuney was recognised by Marketing World Awards (MWA) for her outstanding performance in the corporate scene, particularly in the marketing communications industry. This was recognition of the excellence with which she is able to found, adapt and apply marketing strategies, device and deliver distinct product values, and communicate to others—an excellence her employers are grateful for. Folake Ani-Mumuney owns a coat of ‘First’ colours. She was the first black woman to man a top spot in the prestigious British Airways, and the first female President of the Advertisers Association of Nigeria. Any wonder she was one of those who bore the flag of the Dangote Group of companies to global standards and recognition? At First Bank PLC, Folake Ani-Mumuney is the Global Head of Marketing and Corporate Communications. This is where she currently employs her various certifications—like the Business Computing System Analysis and Design degree—and her wealth of corporate experience spanning over 25 years in promoting superior values, expanding the utility of banking services, and delighting customers. At 52, Folake Ani-Mumuney has not lost her stride, but is still the corporate Amazon with a lightning-fast mind and a habit of distinction.