Emma Okonji The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami has said the TD’s Tech Experience Centre, which houses global technology companies in Nigeria, will enhance Nigeria’s relevance in the global technology race and shore up the country’s march to technology independence. Pantami said this in Lagos recently, while unveiling the centre, put together by Technology Distribution Africa (TD), an arm of Zinox Group. For the first time, Nigeria, through the Tech Experience Centre, will play host to the latest global technologies including those not normally available in Africa, offering all classes of visitors a first-hand experience of new gadgets, solutions and infrastructure that would have previously required a visit abroad, thereby saving corporate organisations, government establishments and individuals money or scarce foreign exchange expended on these trips. The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented at the unveiling by the Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, commended TD for the initiative, which he said would further drive technology development in the country. Pantami and other dignitaries were conducted round the space of each Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM), to see for themselves the demonstrations of the various technologies in action. Also experienced was a gaming arena where visitors would be immersed in the latest Virtual Reality-aided games including the all-new PS5. Head of the Tech Experience Centre, Chidalu Ekeh, disclosed that more revolutionary innovations would be unveiled at the centre. She stated that the launch of the centre was a display of faith in Nigeria by global tech giants, adding that what is on ground is only the first phase of what she described as a ‘major investment’. She said: ‘‘The Tech Experience Centre is a burning passion of TD Africa, sub-Saharan Africa’s technology, lifestyle and solutions distributor, nurtured over many long, painstaking months and which has become a reality today. Also worth mentioning is the fact that this project is a declaration of faith by global tech leaders in Nigeria. Certainly, it was not a dream that came easy, especially considering the need to play by and comply strictly with the international rules of the global tech game. ‘‘This initiative is a major investment that will rub off positively on the Nigerian economy and I can confidently say that what is on ground already is the first phase of this massive project. Inside this edifice are three other floors that are yet to be occupied and conversations are still ongoing, with respect to other strategic partnerships with global tech giants to this effect.’’