By Hammed Shittu Kwara State Governor, Mr. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has appealed to Nigerians to never turn their backs or abandon the police and other security agencies. AbdulRaza stated that the vast majority of the officers are patriots equally committed to a greater Nigeria. The governor said the events of the past few weeks, especially the #EndSARS protests, should not be framed in a way that might leave officers and men of the police demoralised or dejected. Demoralising the security forces, especially the police, might play into the hands of criminals who prefer anarchy to hurt their victims, the governor warned. The governor had on Tuesday night, visited various police posts in Ilorin to identify with officers and men of the police in Kwara State who he said have mostly been doing well. Yesterday, he led Kwara Senators— Ibrahim Yahya Oloriegbe (Central); Sadiq Umar (North); and Lola Ashiru (South) — to the police headquarters to cheer the police for their efforts to maintain the peace. AbdulRazaq had earlier held a security council meeting during which he observed certain interests later hijacked the peaceful #EndSARS protests to push for anarchy and undemocratic regime change. The governor said: “We care about our police and we must not demoralise them. We should avoid using one brush to tar all of them. I urge all Nigerians to stand up and support the police. “We need to embrace the Police to do their jobs,” AbdulRazaq said during a visit to Police state Commissioner of Police, Kayode Egbetokun at the police headquarters. “I am glad that President Muhammadu Buhari has given instructions that the needful should be done. “Their salaries will be increased. Their welfare will be increased and I am sure they would do more to serve us.” Speaking earlier when the senators visited him to commend his handling of the recent #EndSARS protests and attacks on public and private facilities in Ilorin, AbdulRazaq said he visited some police stations to interact with men and officers on duty and to ask after their welfare. “We truly appreciate what the Police are doing. We urge them to continue to do their work professionally. #EndSARS was meant to stop Police brutality. It was not meant to become a campaign for police bashing,” he said. He commended the senators for always standing by the state government and the people at all time. AbdulRazaq also warned against the menace of fake news, which he said poses grave threats to national peace. Egbetokun, who described the visit of the governor and the senators as historic, said AbdulRazaq’s tour of police stations meant a lot to the officers and men of the Force.