H. Pierson Associates Limited and XPLANE Consulting at the weekend announced that they have entered into a strategic partnership. The arrangement, according to a statement would see both firms combine H. Pierson’s industry-leading management consulting services with XPLANE’s world-class design-led approach to strategy development and activation. The partnership is focused on supporting companies in Africa and select emerging market institutions.
“With uncertainty, technology and innovation playing an increasingly critical role in every aspect of business especially with the COVID pandemic, organisations across the continent are recognising that they need to more than ever before, anticipate disruptions and respond quicker to market dynamics in articulating and executing their strategies,” the statement added. It described the H. Pierson-XPLANE partnership as a powerful combination.
“XPLANE’s diverse global team based out of Portland Oregon, USA, combines its strategy expertise as a Fortune-500-focused management consulting firm, with the creative power of a design studio. “This derives from its renowned trademark as a ‘Visual Thinking Company.’ Its unique approach combines hands-on visual thinking, engaging workshops, and collaborative co-creation with stakeholders. “This is complementary to the H. Pierson team’s agile approach to focused strategy execution monitoring and evaluation, which bridges the gaps between strategy development and execution, and uniquely assures fast strategy adoption, institutionalisation and impact optimisation,” the statement added. Speaking on the partnership, the Executive Vice Chairman/Founder Mrs. Eileen Shaiyen, expressed delight about the partnership, saying she was optimistic that it would deliver very superior solutions to clients across Africa and select emerging markets. While speaking on the partnership, the CEO of XPLANE, Aric Wood, said both firms were very aligned in the type of work they do.
Wood added: “We are thrilled to partner with one of the continent’s leading firms, H. Pierson, to support their clients’ efforts to accelerate positive change.” H. Pierson is a boutique management consulting firm that for over 30 years has continued to provide institutions in Africa with uncommon value-adding solutions in the areas of strategy, human resource management, learning and risk management across several sectors. On the other hand, XPLANE Consulting is one of the foremost global design consultancies that combine a unique approach of hands-on visual thinking, co-creation, and people-centred design with management consulting expertise to drive organizational transformation and bring visions to life