* Looting: Police arrest 144 suspects By Hammed Shittu The Kwara State Government has relaxed the 24-hour curfew imposed on the state, which will now commence from 8pm to 6am. It said the decision to review the curfew was taken during the state executive council meeting. This comes as the state police command has said that it has arrested 144 suspects in connection with last weekend’s looting of government and private property in Ilorin, the state capital. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the state governor, Mr. Rafiu Ajakaye, said: “A review of the situation in the Ilorin metropolis suggested a relative calm. The meeting observed that the objective of the curfew has largely been achieved as the misguided elements who looted and vandalised public and private properties have been pushed back and normalcy restored. “Consequently, the security council resolved to relax the curfew from 24 hours to between 6p.m. and 8 a.m. daily until further notice. This means members of the public can move around between 8 a.m. and 6p.m. daily within the metropolis. “Even so, the government will continue to review the situation and take decisions that are in the best interest of the state.” Meanwhile, security operatives in Kwara State have arrested 144 suspects in connection with last weekend’s looting of government and private property in Ilorin, the state capital. Speaking with journalists in Ilorin Monday, the state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Kayode Egbetokun, said that the arrest of the suspects was as a result of combined efforts of security agencies operating in the state. Egbetokun, who confirmed that two government warehouses and lots of privately-owned property were attacked by the hoodlums, said that the violence was well coordinated and led by some hardened criminals. He said a large quantity of looted property have also been recovered, including two vehicles used to cart away looted goods. Egbetokun called on those who still have looted property in their possession to voluntarily surrender them, adding that such people would not be prosecuted. The police commissioner said that such looted property could be returned to various religious centres like mosques, churches and even residences of community heads. He said that arrest of suspects is a continuous process, adding that: “As we are here, more arrest and recovery of looted property are still being made.”