Daji Sani in Yola A former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has commended Adamawa State Governor, Alhaji Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri for introducing policies that will promote prosperity and growth in the state. Abubakar stated this in a letter of congratulation he addressed to the governor at the weekend to felicitate with him on Nigeria’s 60th independence anniversary. He observed that despite the fact that Fintiri inherited N115 Billion debt from the previous administration, he was still able to champion a world-class transformation of the macroeconomic structure of the state. Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2019 general election, commended the governor’s efforts at eradicating corruption in the state. “It is not for nothing that you are popularly referred to as ‘ATM’ and ‘fresh air’ as the first amongst first term governors to successfully conduct local government elections and expunge a culture of unpaid salary arrears of local government workers, primary school teachers and the primary healthcare sector. “Your recent infrastructure development strides will forever change the landscape and economic fortunes of Adamawa. You have exhibited the highest qualities of leadership for the diverse ethnicities of our state. “Indeed, I am a proud citizen of Adamawa state under your stewardship. There is a global call and looming fundamental shift and diversification of the economy. “As we celebrate our diamond jubilee, this is a time for us to reflect and appreciate that Northern Nigeria was developed without oil, and in order to achieve continued development, it is our obligation to ensure that the North is the nerve of economic diversification in Nigeria. “Aware of our strength and potential to grow without oil, I would like to seize this medium to call for a strategic diversification for the prosperity of our people. “This will support security, innovation, eradication of poverty, economic transformation, regional integration, and most importantly, a significant development of our region. Please accept my best wishes as we celebrate our unrelenting strength as a nation,” Atiku explained. The former vice president explained that as Nigeria “celebrates its diamond anniversary of 60 years, the emergence of democracy in May 1999 ended a consecutive 16 years of military rule. We have come a long way! “Although there are roadblocks to a dynamic democracy in Nigeria at all levels of government; conflict—triggered by insecurity, political competition, communal, ethnic, religious or resource allocation rivalries—pose a major threat to democracy, we continue to hold our nation and each other up.”