By Bennett Oghifo Lekki Gardens, Nigeria’s premier pan-African property investment company is upgrading and beautifying some of its estates in a bid to continually satisfy its clients. The company took its customer service and satisfaction a step further by going back to some of their estates in Lagos and Port Harcourt, renovating them at no cost to residents. This laudable and highly uncommon act provides high economic value to its customers, as it increases durability and thus the value of their homes, while saving cost for them. Lekki Gardens, which is renowned for hands-on approach to putting the needs of its customers first, said in a statement it would continue innovative practices, customer-centric culture. The company added that it would continue to build wealth for its investors with a transformational approach to the Nigerian real estate market. The Chief Engagement Officer of Lekki Gardens, Akinwande Romeo said, “At Lekki Gardens, a renewed drive for excellence and quality has birthed an unending quest for precision and impeccable delivery. This sets her apart from others in the industry, delivering your home is not the end of the journey for us in this case, we revisited a couple of our projects which have been completed for about five years now and we gave them an upgrade and facelift.” They quoted a home owner, Mr. Yomi Adelabu as saying, “My friends couldn’t stop congratulating and commending me for an upgraded and more beautiful space at our last Friday Games Night. I appreciate the Lekki Gardens Management for this highly generous act and their unending thoughtfulness and care to all its residents. Buying a home with Lekki Gardens is by far the best decision I have ever made.” Since the upgrade, residents in those estates now enjoy the ultimate luxury living experience with the best in class construction technology, pristine finishing options, lavish and luscious living and dining areas, as well as state of the art residential amenities. Giving reason for the upgrade and beautification of their estates, the company’s Technical Special Adviser, Mr. Damilola Suara, said, “For us at Lekki Gardens, our customers are at the center of all we do and this commitment fuels our resolve to continually serve and deliver excellence to them. We will not relent, as our primary goal here at Lekki Gardens is to build trans-generational wealth for our clients so we continue to help them improve on value of their property. “From our inception in 2012, we have been unwaveringly committed to delivering value to our customers and this is evident in all we do at Lekki Gardens, we do not deliver and leave, we are with you every step of the way.”