By Kingsley Nwezeh The Department of State Services (DSS) yesterday denied that its personnel were aiding pro-SARS movement and thugs to attack #EndSARS protesters in Abuja. The FCT Police Command has also denied aiding thugs to attack the protesters. The social media is awash with videos and pictures of alleged police vehicles and men dressed in black suit aiding the Pro-SARS movement, while the vehicles conveyed thugs wielding sticks and dangerous weapons to protest venues from where they unleashed mayhem on protesters and FCT residents. But the two security agencies denied involvement in the attacks. A statement issued by the Spokesman of the DSS, Dr. Peter Afunanya, said there was no truth in such claims. “The attention of the Department of State Services (DSS) has been drawn to the fake news making the round that its personnel are aiding pro-SARS supporters and thugs to attack #ENDSARS protesters in Abuja. “Part of the untruth being spewed to the public is that some of its officials attached to certain VIPs aided thugs in this regard. In view of the false accusations, no DSS personnel has, so far, been identified to be involved in the alleged acts,” it said. According to the statement “It begs the question to conclude that SUVs and persons dressed in suits and sighted in conflict environments are of the DSS. Fact is that no staff of the DSS will engage in acts as the ones being peddled by these rumour mongers and hate speakers. “The service is a responsible professional organisation and will endeavor to remain so at all times. It, therefore, wishes to state that the allegations leveled against it are not true and can only be taken as false narratives designed to cast it in bad image as well as inflame the protests”. The DSS enjoined the public to disregard the falsehood emanating from sections of the social and mainstream media, subversive groups and interests. Afunanya called on citizens to eschew bitterness, remain law abiding and cooperate with security agencies and indeed, the government for lasting peace and public safety. Meanwhile, the spokesperson of the FCT Command, ASP Mariam Yusuf, also denied the involvement of police in aiding thugs to further cause violence. “Do you think we can be involved in that? The Police can’t be part of that,” she said in response to a query from THISDAY.