•Plans national membership registration exercise By Adedayo Akinwale The Chairman of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, has said that his committee has created a level-playing ground for all party members, and has allowed the state chapters to run affairs of the party in their domain without unnecessary and destructive interference. This, he said, has ushered in a much-needed regime of internal democracy within the party, as was obvious in the handling of the various primary elections that were coordinated in the last few months by the caretaker committee. Buni has also told the state chairmen of the ruling party that his committee is already strategising on the national membership registration exercise and urged them to commence the procedure for full sensitisation and the needed awareness for a successful membership registration exercise in their various states. The Yobe State governor disclosed these yesterdays during a meeting with the state chairmen of the party at the national secretariat in Abuja. He stressed that having taken over the management of the party’s affairs in the circumstances familiar to all party members a few months ago, the committee has taken and implemented a number of open-door policies to revamp and improve the lots of the party both internally and with respect to the party’s integrity and acceptance nationally. Buni added that this has led to a number of positive results, which include the resolution of several internal disputes in several state chapters of the party. He stated: “These much and as the anchor of the Committee’s modus-Operandi, we have made the decisions and have effected procedures that among several other, have: Created a level playing ground for all members of the party, inclusive of state chapters to run affairs of the party in their domain without unnecessary and destructive interference from external interests, for as long as the laws and regulations of the party are duly abided by
“This has consequently ushered in a much-needed regime of internal democracy within the party as was obvious in the handling of the various primary elections that were coordinated in the last few months by the committee, and the manner of the conduct of the recent Ondo state election that the party won.” Buni noted that the committee has embarked on massive conflict resolution in the party across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He stressed that the party has been able to reach a compromise that demands the withdrawal of all internal litigations against the party, to allow for internal resolutions and settlement of disputes. He said it would not have been possible without the full support and collaboration of party chairmen across the states of the federation. Buni also pleaded with the chairmen to use their offices to ensure the full withdrawal of such litigations that may still remain within their domain before the next National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the party. “Please, also allow me to use this opportunity to inform us all that the need for our party to undertake a national membership register update is sacrosanct to our strength and preparation for all upcoming and future electioneering outings. “The committee is already at the table strategising on the national membership registration exercise. The responsibility is on you as able state chairmen to commence the procedure for full sensitisation and needed awareness for a successful membership registration exercise in your various states as we all wait for the final briefing from the committee,” Buni said. Speaking on behalf of the state chairmen of APC, Borno State APC Chairman, Mr. Bukar Dalori, said the chairmen were pleased and proud of what the committee has achieved so far, stressing that of specific note was that the party is getting more united, with more people joining. He noted that the last weekend success in Ondo State was a reflection of the party’s successes. He added that the plans for new membership registration was in accordance with section 9.4 of the party’s Constitution, which provides that a register of members shall be compiled and maintained at the Ward level has met with the approval of Party Members across the country. Dalori cited a recent ultimatum to the caretaker committee by a group calling themselves “Concerned All Progressives Congress members”, adding that the group is unknown in the party. He stated the APC Chairmen unanimously condemned any attempt to distract efforts of the Caretaker Committee from the commendable work it has been doing. Dalori said the ruling party has recognisable processes through which members can lodge any legitimate grievance, saying that shadowy groups, with questionable agenda cannot claim any concern for the party.