By Victor Ogunje A 25-year-old woman, Olofin Adenike, was yesterday arraigned before an Ado-Ekiti Chief Magistrates Court, Ekiti State, for alleged fraud. The police prosecutor in the case, Inspector Caleb Leramo, told the court that the defendant committed the offence between January and August 2020 in Ado-Ekiti. He alleged that the defendant, a staff of Glorious Grace Multi Dynamic Investment Limited, fraudulently converted the sum of N384,000 for personal use. Leramo said the offence contravened Section 383, and punishable under Section 390(9) of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012. The prosecutor urged the court to adjourn the case to enable him study the file and assemble his witnesses. However, the defendant pleaded not guilty. Counsel to the defendant, Mr. Adedeji Emmanuel, urged the court to grant his client bail, and promised that the defendant would not jump bail. The Chief Magistrate, Abdulhamid Lawal, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N100,000 with two sureties in like sum, and adjourned the case to November 5, 2020, for hearing. Meanwhile, the court has ordered the remand of a 27-year-old man, Quadri Temitope, in the Correctional Centre in Ado-Ekiti over alleged involvement in cultism. The defendant, whose address was not provided, is being tried for alleged involvement in cultism. The prosecutor in the matter, Inspector Caleb Leramo, told the court that the defendant committed the offence on September 19 in Emure-Ekiti. Leramo alleged that the defendant had confessed that he was a member of Eiye confraternity. He said the offence contravened Section 4 (i) of Secret Cult Abolition Law, 2017. The prosecutor urged the court to remand the defendant in the correctional centre pending legal advice from the office of Director of Public Prosecution (DPP). The plea of the defendant was, however, not taken. The Chief Magistrate, Lawal, ordered the remand of the defendant in the correctional centre, pending issuance of legal advice from DPP, and adjourned the case to October 15, 2020, for mention.