By Peter Uzoho The Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC), manager of the National Integrated Power Projects (NIPPs) is engaging Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) to see how it will increase power supply to industrial clusters and residents in Ogun State through its Eligible Customer drive. The Managing Director, NDPHC, Mr. Chiedu Ugbo, disclosed this to journalists recently after his meeting with officials of IBEDC at the Olorunsogo Power Generation Company in Ogun State. Ugbo, said the management of NDPHC recently met with Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State and his Ogun counterpart, Mr Dapo Abiodun, to solicit their support and cooperation in furtherance of the objective. He said the company which has 10 power generation plants across the country, had signed an agreement with IBEDC for reliable power supply to industrial clusters in areas under its network. Ugbo said the Olorunsogo Power Plant has a capacity of 750MW, but had a limited off-take from the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) which leads to energy losses.
“We came here with IBDC that is in charge of most of the South-west states to discuss with them in terms of distribution to end users. “Our distribution essentially is how we can work together under bilateral agreement that will see us supply the electricity to them and they will distribute to eligible customers. This will include industrial clusters and even residential clusters,” Ugbo said. He said the assets of NDPHC were established by monies belonging to Nigerians by the government and should therefore be utilised for the benefit of the people. The NDPHC boss noted that the transmission network presently cannot allow Nigerians to take electricity directly from generation companies. Ugbo added: “The electricity is there, however the transmission company is unable to take all that is being generated. So we came with Ibadan Disco to see what the challenges are, what the network bottlenecks are and how we can work with them and do an end to end from the power plant to the end users.” He said there were a lot of industries in Shagamu and Ota axis which would key into the model to solve their energy challenges, stressing that the company was ready to install infrastructure needed for its success.