Seriki Adinoyi in Jos Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State has identified Polo game as a sure way of projecting the state and returning it to the centre stage in the world of sports, noting that he was determined to do that by reviving the game in the state. The governor, who spoke in Jos during his investiture as the grand patron of Jos Polo Club, said that involving more people in the sport will boost economic development of the state, adding that though he was a member of the Golf Club, he was ready to join the Polo Club as well. The event, organised by NASCO Group of Companies as part of activities to celebrate Nigeria’s 60th Independence anniversary, also featured road cycling and taekwando among others. Lalong assured stakeholders in the state that the Polo Field in Jos will be rehabilitated very soon as his government has made arrangements to get a permanent venue for trade fair which earlier held at the ground, adding that the field will be upgraded and dedicated solely for the game of polo. He commended NASCO Group of Companies for its continued sponsorship of polo, as it has drawn lovers of the game from across the country, and has helped in fostering peace in the state. The Governor said, “In the past, many people all over the world used to converge on the Plateau because of polo sports and the economy of the state was better for it. “Let us work for a more prosperous Plateau State. We will move the state’s trade fair from here (Jos polo field) to a permanent site to enable us develop the Jos Polo Club.” President of Jos Polo Club, Alhaji Murtala Laushi said they decided to honour the governor as the grand patron of the club because of his outstanding contributions to the club since he assumed office in 2015. The Chairman of NASCO group, Dr. Attia Nasreddin said that the 60th Independence anniversary offered the citizens a unique opportunity, hence the decision of the company to “connect and celebrate with our fans, patrons, friends, customers, consumers and stakeholders. The Governor also performed the symbolic planting of trees to promote the campaign for afforestation, and also cut the anniversary cake to mark the Diamond Jubilee of Nigeria.