By Ferdinand Ekechukwu Chief Commander Ebenezer Obey-Fabiyi has said that investment in real estate is better than most others. He also said the EndSARS Movement by Nigerian youths is a good one, because it shows that Nigerians could truly unite for good. He said this while celebrating members of the Gtext Homes family on their fifth anniversary, recently Speaking at the event, which took place at Gtext Homes head office in Omole, Lagos, the music maestro said, “People should invest in landed property. When you buy a land today, by next year, it has appreciated in value. In five years, it is higher. The house you build or buy today is an investment. A popular Yoruba adage says that ‘the money a young man first makes he does not invest but eats it’ and that is not the wisest thing. Lands and houses are the most secured investments. Lands cannot be stolen, but cars and other things can be stolen. I built my first house when I was 27 years old. My father died when I was 38 and I had built a lot of houses by then.” Chief Commander Obey added, “That is why I like Gtext, they are securing the future for a better tomorrow. Immediately I stepped into Gtext, I saw the pursuit of excellence, and that shows that the organisation will continue to grow. To have 10 estates within five years is no small achievement.” He stated that there was no way anyone could please the world, adding that what the youths are saying, had been said by many people in the past. “This protest is a big surprise and no one was expecting it. Everyone was pushed to the wall. EndSARS is a good movement because that is the only way we can correct many ills and things that are not right in the country. Our leaders should see this and think that something is wrong beyond our imagination. I pray God would help us.” Obey also advised artistes of the day to sing meaningful songs that would stand the test of time. The Managing Director of Gtext, Stephen Akintayo said, “For us at Gtext, we like to celebrate people when they are alive. One of the things I have noticed about this generation is that we do not put emphasis on learning from elders, particularly people whose careers have spanned years. Baba’s career has spanned for 65 years and we are hoping a day will come when Gtext will celebrate 65 years as a company. We are 12 years as a group of companies, but Gtext Homes is five years today, and we hope to stay around for a long time.”