By Bennett Oghifo Hyundai Motor Company has said it would host an innovative virtual event ‘The All-New Tucson, Beyond DRIVE’, showcasing the recently launched Tucson SUV, one of Hyundai’s best-selling vehicles around the world. A statement by the automaker said “Working with SM Entertainment, Korea’s leading entertainment company, the online event will use augmented reality (AR)/extended reality (XR) technology and feature a performance by a globally beloved K-Pop artist using the AR concert platform Beyond LIVE. The event is designed to tell a compelling musical story about the all-new Tucson SUV while providing an immersive, engaging experience for the audience.” Through the virtual showcase, Hyundai will highlight the SUV lifestyle and its vision for the new Tucson in a format that reaches highly coveted Millennial and Gen Z consumers who rely on online platforms for news, information, shopping and entertainment. The event will be livestreamed at 10 p.m. (KST) tomorrow, November 1, viewable at the HyundaiWorldwide YouTube channel. Hyundai continues to leverage the latest digital presentation technologies to roll-out its all-new Tucson, which launched via global livestream in September. The digital format provides an immersive and engaging way to highlight Tucson’s cutting-edge design, dynamic performance and best-in-class digital capabilities that provide convenience and connectivity for tech-savvy consumers. Available in two different wheelbases, the midsize SUV offers a versatile interior that accommodates various lifestyles. The subtopic of the virtual showcase, ‘Follow your hidden light,’ and the musical story was inspired by the hidden headlamps of the all-new Tucson. The SUV has no visual boundary between its daytime running lights (DRL) and grille, so the parametric jewel headlamps are hidden. When the engine is turned on, these integrated lamps shine their strong presence in the shape of wings. The virtual showcase enables the Tucson to be integrated in an AR-enhanced musical story about an ordinary person, played by KAI of EXO and SuperM, who once dreamed of being an explorer and rediscovers his sense of adventure while travelling in a fantastic space using the all-new Tucson. “Due to the pandemic, digital entertainment content is getting more popular around the world,” said Wonhong Cho, Executive Vice President and Global Chief Marketing Officer of Hyundai Motor Company. “By working with SM Entertainment, Hyundai is leveraging the latest digital technologies to present a uniquely immersive experience befitting the innovative all-new Tucson.”