Chinedu Eze Domestic airlines have announced that they would resume flights from Lagos after the curfew, Saturday and would now connect other destinations from the commercial city.
Air Peace, Dana Air and Arik Air said that they were poised to resume full flight from Lagos. The airlines relocated their operations to the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja from where they connected to the states that were not under curfew like Kano, Kaduna, Yola and other cities. With the curfew, which started last Tuesday being relaxed weekend, the airlines would resume flights from their Lagos hub.
The airlines said arrangements were on top gear to ensure seamless facilitation of passengers from Saturday.
Dana Air image-maker, Kingsley Ezenwa, said all tickets within the period of the curfew remain valid and can be rescheduled for free. “Following our earlier announcement on cancellation, we are pleased to inform you that we will resume full flight operations from tomorrow the 24th of October 2020. “All tickets within the period of the curfew remain valid and can be rescheduled for free by sending an email to contact@flydanaair.com or a chat to our WhatsApp number 07051190363
Head of Communications, Arik Air, Adebanji Ola had earlier announced that all its operations would be suspended but has now commenced operations to selected routes until normalcy was restored to start full-scale operations across its entire network. “Arik Air will be resuming limited flights to some destinations where there are no curfews on Friday, October 23, 2020. Specifically, the airline will be operating flights from its second hub in Abuja to Port Harcourt, Ilorin, Benin, Kano and Yola. “On Friday, Arik Air will operate one flight each from Nnamdi Azikiwe Airport, Abuja to Port Harcourt, Ilorin and Kano. Also, on Saturday, the airline will operate one flight each from Abuja to Port Harcourt, Benin and Yola. “The airline had on Tuesday, October 20, 2020 suspended all flights due to the 24 hours curfew announced by the Lagos State government. Flights from Lagos to other parts of the country will however resume upon the lifting of the 24 hours curfew by the Lagos state government,” Ola said.