Leading Islamic society, the Nasrul-lahi-l-Fatih Society (NASFAT), has enjoined Nigerians to embrace justice, peace and dialogue for a prosperous and inclusive Nigeria in reaction to the recent spate of violent and tragic events across the country. The Society expressed shock at the reported use of gunshots to disperse peaceful protesters at the Lekki toll gate and the wanton loss of lives and livelihood from incidents of arson, riots and looting by hoodlums in several states. According to the President of NASFAT, Mr. Niyi Yusuf, “The Society welcomes the directives for an immediate resolution of the crisis and justice to all affected persons from the mayhem in line with the laws and Constitution of Nigeria. The society commends the governors for their speedy inauguration of judicial panel of inquiry into alleged cases of police brutality at the state level. The society also commends all our youths who have conducted themselves peacefully. “In the same light, NASFAT called on the security agencies to always exercise restraint as they restore law and order across the country whilst appealing to all protesters and demonstrators to call off all related street protests and embrace the opportunity for dialogue and peace.” The Society condemned all acts of violence, arson and banditry by hoodlums. Referencing the Hadith, the Chief Missioner of NASFAT, Imam AbdulAzeez Onike, called for an immediate end of all forms of violence, banditry and arson for sustainable peace and security. He said too much blood has already been spilled, adding that any life lost is a stain on humanity. “The eyes are shedding tears and the heart is grieving, and we will not say except what pleases our Lord. We expressed our condolences to families of victims and policemen who lost their lives in different cities in Nigeria whilst also commiserating with those who lost their valuable properties. To support affected members, the Society announced the immediate establishment of N10million victims’ restitution relief fund to provide succour to those injured and whose businesses and properties may have been vandalised. Additionally, the society plans to set up a Fellowship programme for traditional and social media journalists to recognise, promote and reward reportage that accentuates instances of humane, conscientious and gallant acts of the Nigerian police force that promotes good community relations,” he said.