Sunday Ehigiator In what seems to be a revolutionary protest happening across the country as foiled by police brutality, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Cantagali Limited, Tosin Ashafa, has want political leaders in the country that they can no longer take the people for granted. In a statement, Thursday, Ashafa said, change has come and young people have woken up to the enormous power within and among themselves to steer the course of the nation. “Indeed, sovereignty belongs to the people and those in government who derive their power and authority from the constitution only hold it in trust. “The letters of the constitution based solely on the principles of democracy and social justice have found expression on the streets of Lagos, down to the hilly and rocky terrain of Minna. “Pushed to the wall, young Nigerians, many of whom have been derided as docile, are vociferously reminding those in authority where true power resides in a democracy. “Their grouse is legitimate. The frustration they experience and the pain they feel cannot be exaggerated. The hard truth is that the system has not only failed them but is now threatening to consume them. And now that it has become a matter of life and death, they are left with no better option than to push back at the system. “For this, I’m incredibly proud that a generation of young Nigerians have not only recognized that they deserve better but are brave enough to demand better from the government they elected. “It should be clear to everyone, especially those in authority, that there is now a generation of Nigerians who will not tolerate the abuse and dysfunction that has characterized our national life since independence. But those in power missed the memo. “Not in their wildest dream did they ever think that a group of young school leaving, Naira Marley loving and Big Brother watching generation would challenge their ‘authority.’ They would get tired after two days, some of them thought, but the grit and discipline that has been demonstrated by these protesters have proven the assumptions to be fatally wrong.” According to him, the ongoing protests are cut from a different cloth. They are different. They have neither the trappings of colonial oppression nor the post-traumatic syndrome of military dictatorship. “They are fearless and would continue to make demands on their leaders. I should know because I have a daughter who unlike me at her age, is bold and assertive and responds to love not intimidation. “And just like how the March on Washington changed the course of history for African Americans, and how the 1848 gathering at Seneca Falls set the tone for women suffrage, these protests may very well mark a turning point in our socio-political trajectory.” He said he could only hope that the current political leadership across the country can recognize this defiance for what it is; “a cry for broad and systemic reforms that will guarantee the liberty and dignity of all Nigerians. “There are enough material and ideas that the government can borrow from. The problem has always been the political will and the sense of urgency to see critical reforms through. “But I wish to warn the current political elite (of which I may be seen as one), you can no longer take the people for granted. Change has come and young people have woken up to the enormous power within and among themselves to steer the course of this nation. “And this may just be the beginning of a new political movement, led and funded by young people aimed at taking their destinies into their hands. This will certainly be interesting to watch.” He thereby called on everyone in positions of authority to “keep open the door of dialogue and restrain themselves from giving in to the temptation of deploying brute force. Allow them to grieve their loved ones who were recklessly killed by trigger-happy policemen. “Allow them to vent their anger and frustration with a system that has made it difficult for them to fulfil their potential. Your job is to constantly reassure them and commit to fixing what is broken. “Remember, that you cannot slap a man and also determine for him how he should react,” he said.