The football offering has been further boosted on DStv and GOtv as both platforms will broadcast games from the Premier League, La Liga and Serie A seasons live to its subscribers from 17 and 19 October 2020. The weekend’s Premier League action opens Live at 12:30pm on the afternoon of Saturday 17 October on SuperSport Premier League with a potential thriller between Merseyside rivals Everton and Liverpool at Goodison Park. Both the Toffees and the Reds have enjoyed excellent starts to the 2020-21 season, with the former feeling that they could really challenge Jurgen Klopp’s champions in this clash and perhaps pull off a first league win over their cross-town rivals since October 2010. “Everton is a massive club, the reality hit with a lot of the players that we’ve got a world class manager and, as players, if we’re not delivering then they can bring someone else in who can do a job,” said defender Michael Keane. Saturday features another mouth-watering clash with the meeting of Manchester City and Arsenal in the early-evening kick-off. Once again, Gunners manager Mikel Arteta will pit his wits against former boss Pep Guardiola and look to continue his growth as a leader of a major club. The match will kick off at 5:30pm Live on SuperSport Premier League. Sunday opens with the fierce rivalry between Crystal Palace and Brighton & Hove Albion at 2pm Live on SuperSport Premier League, SuperSport Football and SuperSport GOtv Football – a clash which could be distilled down to the head-to-head battle between the Eagles’ Ivorian attacker Wilfried Zaha and the Seagulls’ Ghana-eligible right-back Tariq Lamptey. One of the top matches to look out for in La Liga sees Barcelona head to the Coliseum Alfonso Perez to take on Getafe also on Saturday 17, October, a meeting of two teams which have made promising starts to the season and will be looking to keep up their momentum. The exciting match will be on at 8pm Live on SuperSport La Liga and SuperSport GOtv La Liga. In head-to-head terms, Getafe have not beaten Barca in a league clash since way back in 2011, but manager Jose Bordalas will feel the Catalans have plenty of weaknesses for his side to exploit, while a defence led by Togolese Djene Dakonam has the resilience to withstand their opponent’s attack. Serie A’s weekend action opens with a cracker between Napoli and Atalanta at Stadio San Paulo on the afternoon of Saturday 17 October. The meeting of two teams with ambitions of challenging for the Scudetto in 2020-21 will broadcast Live at 2pm on SuperSport Variety 3 and SuperSport GOtv Select 1. They’re also highly entertaining, attack-minded teams: the Neapolitans have pace and power in abundance, especially in the shape of Nigerian striker Victor Osimhen, while La Dea have long been one of the most stylish and aggressive outfits in Europe, dictated by the genius of Papu Gomez in midfield. Saturday’s early-evening slot also features the Derby della Madonnina between Internazionale and AC Milan which airs Live at 5pm on SuperSport Variety 3 and SuperSport GOtv Select 1.