•Applauds police pensions fund By Adedayo Akinwale President Muhammadu Buhari has assured police officers that the federal government is committed to improve their living conditions. The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, in a statement, yesterday said the president also applauded the Nigerian Police Fund Pensions Limited for instituting a retirees’ resettlement support scheme, to provide financial support for retired police officers. The president spoke when he virtually inaugurated the head office building of the Nigerian Police Fund Pensions Limited. Buhari added that the government is also focused on ensuring that police officers, who served the nation meritoriously were resettled into retirement, with some financial support. He urged the National Pension Commission (PenCom), the police authorities and Nigeria Police Force Pensions Limited to maintain their concerted efforts toward achieving improved welfare for police personnel. He stated: “To the Nigeria Police Fund Pensions Limited, I wish to applaud your company for instituting a retirees’ resettlement support scheme through which you provide some form of financial support to retired police officers to enable them to resettle fully in retirement after meritoriously serving the nation. “Taking your services to the doorstep of police officers by maintaining an office in each police command and formation is also very laudable. At this juncture, I urge you to continue your untiring efforts in collaborating with the Police authorities towards improving the welfare of both serving and retired personnel of the Nigeria Police Force.’’ The president also commended the continuous efforts of the Nigeria Police Force, not only for fighting and addressing the emerging internal security challenges, but also in enhancing the welfare of its personnel through the pension fund administration, while assuring the police of more government support. According to him, the ceremony is a significant milestone for the nation’s pension industry as the new head office building complex is the first to be purpose-built by a pension fund administrator. “It is noteworthy that for a company that is just six years old to have achieved this magnificent, befitting edifice, utilising only its internally-generated revenue, and using wholly indigenous contractors, shows that our efforts in driving fiscal discipline and encouraging patronage of local firms are yielding the desired results,” he said. Buhari commended the consultant who designed the project, as well as the contractors that erected the complex, whom he learnt are both indigenous, as they “work to promote and build our economy” through the provision of jobs to our teeming youths.” He said he was delighted to hear that during the construction of the project, over 2,000 man-labours were engaged.