Sylvester Idowu in Warri The Kingmakers and Council-of-Chiefs in Idjerhe Kingdom in Ethiope West Local Government Area of Delta State, have reaffirmed the installation of a journalist, HRM Monday Obukowho Ovie Whiskey, Udurhie l as Ovie-elect in the Kingdom. They warned impostors still parading themselves as king in the kingdom to desist or be prepared to face the wrath of the law. The council of chief and kingmakers spoke at the first meeting with the Ovie-elect at his palace. This development is coming following report making the round that one Augus Omasoro who was earlier controversially crown at night by some dissident groups in the Kingdom was still parading himself as Ovie-elect in the ancient Kingdom.
HRM Ovie Whiskey, a veteran Journalist, was installed by the kingmakers on Monday, September 28, after month-long tussle for the stool following the demise of former monarch, His Royal Majesty, Edward Igho Otadaferua, Erhiekevwe 1, who joined his ancestors in 2018, having reigned for 12 years. The said Omasoro was among some chiefs of the Kingdom who were stripped of their titles after they were discovered to be allegedly involved in a secret moves to install him as new King without the knowledge of the then regent of Idjerhe Kingdom, Chief Gabriel Agoda Emeje, and the kingmakers. Omasoro was said to have allegedly invaded the Oguedion around 3: am and was clandestinely crowned King in alleged connivance with some army and policemen drafted to the ‘Oguedion’, a sacred kingmaker’s palace where a new king is usually crown.
However, meeting to reaffirm the installation of HRM Monday Obukowho Ovie Whiskey, Udurhie l, the Kingmakers, said the processes of installing the new monarch was traditionally followed and accepted by all members of the royal families.
Chief Godwin Ofighe, (second Onugbrogodo, Kingmaker) who is from Boboroku sub-clan, however debunked claims that he was not part of the installation, saying that he was fully on ground and have given his unflinching support to the Ovie-elect.
Also, the most senior Unugbrogodo of Onyobru sub-clan, Chief William Atiti, noted that Omasoro and his group are no longer chiefs in Idjerhe kingdom having been stripped of their chieftaincy titles some months ago, adding that the purported midnight action to unlawfully install Omasoro as a king in Idjerhe was both unlawful and alien to the customs and traditions of the kingdom. Atiti debunked claims by Omasoro that he was unqualified to crown a new king, insisting that it was clearly within his prerogative, as the most senior Unugbrogodo (kingmaker) of Idjerhe kingdom, to crown a new king following the demise of the reigning one. The Unugbrogodo of Onyobru sub-clan also cautioned Omasoro over his alleged unguarded statements aimed at tarnishing the public image of prominent people in Idjerhe kingdom, noting that an appropriate petition has been forwarded to the Delta State government on the issue. “Idjerhe is one. We have Idjerhe Central, Oyobru and Boboroku have been working together. To my surprise, two days ago, Omasoro and his agents went to the press to spoil our leaders and chiefs’ names. This is very wrong. We have disrobed them and they are no more chiefs. “We went to Oghara, the chairman told him to go pull anything in his leg, that he is not a chief. Up till now, they have not taken them off. They are still wearing our Iru (beads) on the neck. The normal thing is, when a chief is suspended, he removes the bead. Upon all the instruction the chairman gave to them, Omasoro and his agents still parade themselves as king and chiefs of Idjerhe kingdom. “What we did Monday, everybody was there. All the chiefs from Central, Boboroku and Oyobru were there when we did the installation. It wasn’t hidden. Our respected politicians were there”, he added. Contacted, Mr. August Omasoro refused to comment on the incident.