By Adedayo Akinwale The Caretaker/extraordinary National Convention Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has revealed that the committee had in the last three months reconciled life-threatening challenges for the party in 11 states across the country. The Chairman of the committee and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, disclosed this yesterday during the inauguration of reconciliation and election committee for Bayelsa Central and West senatorial districts. Buni did not name the 11 states where APC has reconciled its members. He stated: “You will all recall the ugly and unfortunate incidences that bedeviled our party which threatened its existence and resulted in the dissolution of the National Working Committee and, the emergence of the Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Committee which I am opportune to chair. I am glad to state that, the committee upon assumption of office engaged in genuine reconciliation to rebuild people’s confidence, trust and hope in the party. “Let me say with all sense of appreciation and fulfillment that the committee had in the last three months reconciled life threatening challenges for the party in 11 states across the country.” Buni said due to the work of the committee, the party proudly parades political heavy weights like the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara; former National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Barnabas Gemade; several members of the National Assembly; Mr. Jimoh Ibrahim; former Head of Service of the Federation, Mr. Danladi Kifasi; Senator Isa Hamma Misau; Alhaji Salisu Takai, among others. He stressed that the mandate of the committee headed by Gombe DState Governor, Alhaji Mohammad Inuwa Yahaya, is to provide genuine reconciliation to give every party member in Bayelsa State, a true sense of belonging. He urged the committee to b be just, fair, transparent and objective in executing its assignment. Buni added that the committee was equally mandated to mobilise, strategise and deliver Bayelsa Central and West senatorial districts to the party, adding that the party’s success in the election is very crucial and strategic, because of the need to have more supporting hands in the National Assembly for improved collaboration and synergy with the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, to successfully execute its policies and programmes to improve the lives of Nigerians. Other members of the committee are: Senator Ovie Omo-Agege as Vice Chairman; Senator Abdullahi Sahabi; Senator Ali Ndume; Senator Uba Sani; Ambassador Fatima Goni; Senator Chris Adegije; Alhaji Yusuf Ocholi; Chief Enyi Enyi, Pearl Inwang , and Mr. Ekemini Udoh as Secretary. However, the chairman of the committee while speaking with journalists after the inauguration said, while he agreed that the committee has been given a difficult task to accomplish, he said it was not an impossible mission. The governor added: “I agree it is a very big task, but for me as a governor and as a loyal party member, I have the believe that nothing is impossible as far as election is concerned as long as we are able to work together as a family and work towards the success of the party I think is a possibility and I have the conviction that we shall deliver APC in both the senatorial election coming up in Bayelsa State.” “When reminded that the party would be contesting against the immediate past governor of the state, Seriake Dickson for the Bayelsa West senatorial district by-election, Yahaya insisted that the former governor was no threat to the party. Yahaya added: “Dickson is no threat; if not for some technical issues, APC would have been in government in Bayelsa State, not even when he was sitting as the governor. At this moment that we have galvanised our party, that we have reunited, that we have reconciled, we are just going to polished all the arrangement that our people have on ground down the ladder, so that we work together assiduously assured the success of the party. I guarantee you, we are going to bring those two senatorial seats.” Yahaya, however, disagreed with the perception that the division within APC governors contributed to the loss of Edo State to the PDP. He added, “I don’t believe so – if you tell me that division within our party members, but not governors. Governors could be anywhere. But if we had gone astray to the extent that we allow a sitting governor to have slipped off, I think somewhere, someplace we faulted and we have made amendment and we shall overcome.” On Ondo election, he noted that as a result of the reconciliation, all those that contested the primary with the incumbent governor, Rotimi Akeredolu have been reconciled, adding that they are working with him for the campaign.