In the years that have followed Nigeria’s amalgamation and independence, quite a number of historic individuals have surfaced as indigenes and paragons of the beloved nation. The selling points of the nation at present are on account of these individuals. At 58, Abike Dabiri-Erewa is no different from preservative salt, keeping safe Nigerians who are abroad, and lending voice to those who cannot speak. That’s an Amazon and Nigeria’s own Wonder Woman. Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa clocked 58 on October 10, 2020. For a woman affable in disposition, grand in aspiration, and gracious in conversation, that day should have been celebrated with blaring trumps and gong-gong drums. Alas, the times do not allow it. Regardless, for all her work and ways, Dabiri-Erewa is cause for gratitude to the creator and a noble example for patriotic men and women everywhere. Under the aegis of the Nigerian in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa has laboured long and hard, and borne fruits deserving of commendation and praise. In her capacity as the CEO (since November of 2018), the very outspoken Amazon has rocked many a political/diplomatic boat, never tiring of being a frontline advocate for socioeconomic, cultural and political development in Nigeria. Mostly because of Dabiri-Erewa, ‘nobodies’ like Zainab Habibu Aliyu, Mallam Ibrahim Ibrahim, and several others obtained their freedom from wrongful imprisonment in foreign countries. Mostly because of Dabiri-Erewa, the awful cliché of outsourced prostitution—where young Nigerian ladies are sandpapered and parcelled overseas—has lost its teeth. Mostly because of Dabiri-Erewa, Nigerians in the diaspora are regarded with caution and care, their detractors aware that there is a Mama Bear—Dabiri-Erewa and her team—just waiting to tear them apart. Great things are spoken of Nigeria and Nigerians in the diaspora, mostly because of Dabiri-Erewa. Little surprise she served as the chair of the House Committee on Diaspora Affairs for 12 years, and then was immediately appointed as Senior Special Assistant on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora to President Muhammadu Buhari. So, at 58, only two years younger than her nation, Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa has accomplished much for herself and her fellow citizens. There is much more to do, but nary a wisp of uncertainty or fear—partly because of Dabiri-Erewa.