Seriki Adinoyi in Jos Plateau State Government has relaxed the 24-hour curfew earlier imposed on Jos, the state capital. It is now from 6a.m. to 8p.m. with effect from October 23, 2020. In a statement issued by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Professor Danladi Atu, the state government said: “This decision was reached after painstaking deliberations with critical stakeholders and careful assessment of the security situation that led to the skirmishes in some parts of the affected local government areas last Tuesday.” The statement reiterated that the state government was not unmindful of citizens’ constitutional rights to hold lawful assembly or stage peaceful protests as long as there are carried out within the extant laws of Nigeria. “As a government, we also appreciate the fact that these are the variables that further deepen our democracy. “However, as a deliberate approach to prevent a repeat of last Tuesday’s ugly incident where precious human lives and property were lost, the government has for now also resolved to ban forthwith any processions and protests under whatever guise in order to safeguard the lives of all citizens of the state. This is to enable the government isolate and deal with those who are bent on disrupting the peace of the state,” the statement added. Urging law-abiding citizens to go about their legitimate businesses without fear of molestation, the state government said it had put all necessary measures in place to ensure the maintenance of law and order across the state. According to the state government, “For the avoidance of doubt, the Plateau State Government has already set machinery in motion to address the demands raised by the protesters. In this light, the government has constituted a committee headed by a retired High Court Judge, Justice Philomena Lot, which has since swung into action, and ready to receive petitions from those who have cases. “We sue for understanding and patience from all and sundry as the government takes decisive steps to address the demands of the protesters in the coming weeks.”