George Okoh In Makurdi A fatal car accident in Gbaste town in Ushongu Local Government Area of Benue State has claimed seven lives. According to a resident of the area, the accident occurred last Saturday evening when a truck lost its bearing and ran into a stationary salon car crushing the occupant to death It was gathered that those who died in the accident included two lecturers from the University of Mkar, two children and three others. According to eyewitnesses, the accident happened when a trailer ran into a stationary Toyota Camry car with registration number MKD-300-NH crushing seven occupants of the car to death. It was further gathered that the driver of the truck had a fairly used car aboard and was about dodging a police check-point when he rammed into the waiting car killing almost all the occupants in it. It took several hours and the combined efforts of the police, officials of Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) and other spirited individuals to evacuate the dead whose bodies were trapped under the truck. Chairman of Ushongo LGA, Hon. Asawa Joseph, was said to have cut short his engagement at a reception in Makurdi to rush to the scene of the accident, where he directed that the bodies of the victims be deposited at Ostra Gum’s hospital at Ushongo town. A search on some documents recovered from the scene of the accident identified two lecturers from the University of Mkar, Mr. Leva Joshua of Mass Communication Department, and Moses Tarnongo as victims of the accident. When contacted, the Sector Commander of FRSC in the state, Aliyu Baba, who confirmed the accident, said seven people were killed, one person injured while four others escaped without any physical injury. He, however, blamed the unfortunate accident on over speeding on the part of the truck driver. Meanwhile the state Governor, Samuel Ortom, in a message delivered in a statement signed by his Media Aide, Terver Akase, sent heartfelt condolences to families of those who lost their lives in the accident. The governor’s sympathies also go to the management, staff and students of the University of Mkar, who lost two of their lecturers in the accident, Joseph Leva and Moses Tarnongo, who died alongside with his wife and three children. He describes the incident as devastating, and urges relevant agencies to investigate the unfortunate development. Ortom prayed for the repose of the souls of the departed and consoled the bereaved families to look unto God for strength to bear the pain of losing their loved ones.