The Governor of Osun State, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola has affirmed that his administration will continue to do more in the Healthcare system of Osun. Oyetola stated this while reacting to the report published by WellNewMe ranking the state as one of the states with the most efficient healthcare services in the country. Osun ranked second behind Anambra and ahead of Ogun, Lagos and Rivers states, which also ranked among the best performers. “I am truly elated by this independent survey that ranked Osun State second among states with the most efficient healthcare services. This ranking is particularly gratifying because it was neither commissioned by us, nor did we know that a survey of this nature was being conducted. We were just working for the good of the State and the people’s welfare, and I am happy that our efforts have not gone unnoticed. “I see this ranking as a call for more efforts because the reward of hard work is more work. I promised the people of Osun State that the healthcare sector will be improved upon, and work is ongoing to bring new innovations to the sector. “I thank the researchers and management of WellNewMe, and I congratulate workers in the healthcare sector of Osun who have helped us to achieve this feat. “We will continue to uphold the standard that earned us this rating by ensuring that our scarce resources are put to better use. We will ensure that our health workers are well equipped and motivated so that they will continue to render quality healthcare services”, Oyetola said. Oyetola’s administration had embarked on a revitalisation of health facilities across the state, revamping nine general hospitals and 332 Primary Health Centres and nine General Hospitals in less than two years, as part of his efforts to improve health in the State. All the PHCs have also been equipped with drugs and consumables. The Oyetola administration has also invested heavily in health insurance scheme, free medical missions, and upgrading the accreditation status of state health institutions.