Aquila Leasing Limited (Aquila), a reputable indigenous leasing firm has been appointed as Fleet Management Technical Partner by MTN Nigeria Communications Plc, a leading telecommunications operator. This appointment will involve the management of existing vehicles, and acquisition of over 500 new operational vehicles for MTN to enhance effective and efficient service delivery; and to continue its positive contribution to the Nigerian economy through the creation of job opportunities, and an increase in GDP. The Fleet Management Service contract,which is for an initial five-year term, is aimed at enhancing MTN’s operations, logistics, equipment and staff commuting. The partnership will create over 2,000 job opportunities ranging from relationship managers, fleet administrators, drivers, mechanics to many other operational stakeholders. The Company Secretary, Mr. Boniface Ekong said in a statement that the contract will also open more opportunities to a host of business entrepreneurs who will be involved in the value chain that the contract covers. He pointed out that Aquila offers similar services to other multinationals across different sectors of the Nigerian economy including companies in the FMCGs, financial, oil and gas, and communications sectors. Aquila also offers leasing services to State governments, cooperative organisations and SMEs. Aquila gained the market reputation as a specialised full-fledged leasing company following its excellent performance over the years. “Currently, Aquila ranks amongst Nigeria’s top independent lease operators and is the market leader in fleet management. The company currently has over 1000 vehicles under its management, and with the new MTN partnership, the number of vehicles will increase to over 1,600 vehicles. Aquila operates nationwide using 3 regional offices in proximity to its customers, and has its presence in all the states,” the statement explained. The statement added that Aquila will leverage on its proficient fleet management experience garnered over the years to help transform MTN’s fleet management, overall positive impact on the telecoms sector and added value to the Nigerian economy.