The Chairman of the Editorial Board of THISDAY Newspapers, Mr. Olusegun Adeniyi, has donated copies of his new book, ‘NAKED ABUSE: Sex for Grades in African Universities’, to some universities in the country including the University of Ilorin. While Unilorin got 150 copies; Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, got 300; BAZE University, Abuja,150; University of Lagos,150; Lagos State University (LASU), 100; Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, 100; University of Jos, 100; University of Nigeria, Nsukka, 150; University of Maiduguri,100; Federal University of Technology, Minna, 100; University of Calabar,150; Edo State University, Iyhamuo, 100; University of Abuja, 100; and the University of Ibadan, 150. Handing over the books to the Director of Corporate Affairs, University of Ilorin, Mr. Kunle Akogun, in Lagos at the weekend, Adeniyi said that the book was informed by his determination to contribute his “voice and platform to the campaign to end all forms of violence against women, including sexual violence”. Adeniyi, who was represented by the Creative Director /Digital Publisher of ‘NAKED ABUSE’ on Amazon.com, Mr. Sunny Hughes, disclosed that “the research for the book started in 2018, following the conviction of Prof. Richard Akindele at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife. That was almost a year before the BBC Documentary on the same issue was aired in September 2019”. According to Adeniyi, “in writing the book, my main objectives include: raising the profile of discourse on sexual harassment in tertiary institutions on the continent, deepening awareness of the drivers, risks and consequences of the culture of gender- based violence on our campuses, and influencing the development and implementation of policies and systems to tackle the challenge “. The author said, “Exposing the culture of sex-for-marks, I believe, would not only help highlight the malaise, it could also kick-start efforts towards curbing predatory behaviour on our campuses. Only then can we truly begin to make education spaces safe for women and girls in Africa.” Receiving the books, Akogun expressed the gratitude of the University of Ilorin to the author and multiple award-winning journalist, saying that the book would be a valuable addition to the collection of the University Library. The Director, who was represented on the occasion by the Head of the University’s Lagos Liaison Office, Mr. Phillip Bamidele, recalled that the university has always enjoyed a robust relationship with Mr. Adeniyi, adding that the book donation would go a long way in cementing that relationship for further mutual benefits. Akogun disclosed that the donated books would be deposited at the University Library for the reading delight of students and staff of the institution. Apart from universities, copies of the book have also been donated to sundry Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and development agencies in the country. These include, Gender Mobile Initiative, 400; Youth Hub Africa,100; Save the Children,100; ActionAid,100; CDD,100; PLAN International,100; UNICEF,100; Enough is Enough,150; Women Rights Advancement and Protection Alternative (WRAPA),100; Women Aid Collective, WACOL, 100; Women Inspiration Development Centre, 50; CEDARSEED, 50; and the Shehu Musa Yar’Adua Centre, 100.