Ebere Nwoji Lasaco Assurance Plc has announced the appointment of Mrs. Maria Olateju Phillips as its Chairman, board of directors. The company said the appointment is with immediate effect. Phillips, takes over from Mrs. Aderinola Disu, who stepped down from the board, having completed her term as chairman. A statement from Lasaco Assurance, said Phillips, a successful chartered accountant who holds an ACCA from England and Wales, has professional training in Executive Development Programmes in Harvard (USA), Columbia & Wharton Business Schools and has attended various management training courses both locally and internationally. According to the statement, she worked as an accountant in the globally renowned firm of Peat Marwick Cassleton Elliot & Co. (Firm of Accountants – Ani, Ogunde & Co. KPMG). She was a Director in Keystone Bank; former Director, Lagos State Lottery Board; Commissioner for Special Duties & Inter-Governmental Relations in Lagos State. She was also the Managing Director of Alma Beach Estate Limited (a subsidiary of Rims Merchant Bank Limited); Managing Director, Maridot Ventures Limited. She is a renowned Management/Financial Consultant to many companies and was at a time, the Divisional Commercial Manager of Kingsway Stores, a division of the United African Company (UAC) of Nigeria Plc, among others. Commenting on the appointment, Disu, who thanked God for the grace of taking the company to an enviable position, was happy at the choice of Phillips as her successor, saying the new chairman has a distinguished track record. Also speaking, the Managing Director of Lasaco Assurance Plc, Mr. Segun Balogun, expressed confidence in the ability of the new chairman to take the company forward, saying, “the board is confident that Mrs. Teju Phillips, with her proven track record of accomplishments, will bring a wealth of knowledge and valuable experience to the position.” The Deputy Managing Director, (Corporate Services) Mr Rilwan Oshinusi said, “Mrs Phillips’ professional track record of excellence in both the public and private sectors and a strong commitment to corporate governance principles, make her a natural fit for the role. She brings on board, her integrity, the wealth of experience, and good leadership style that have made her one of the most respected business leaders in Nigeria today. We are delighted to have her as our new Chairman.” Conveying the board’s acceptance of Disu’s retirement from the board, the Company Secretary, Mrs. Gertrude Olutekunbi appreciated the former chairman for her leadership and innovativeness.