The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki has commended Edo University Iyamho for leading in technological initiatives in Nigeria and the world. Obaseki said this at the institution’s third public lecture, delivered by the President, Federation of African Engineering Organisations, Martin Manuhwa recently. Obaseki, who was represented by the Commissioner for Education, Jimoh Ijiegba, applauded the institution for not shutting down academic activities, despite the COVID-19 pandemic, which led to the closing down of most academic institutions in the world this year. In his lecture titled ‘Digitalization of African Continent: The Role of African Universities’, Manuhwa said Africa needs a new paradigm that focuses on building capacity, inspiring youths through diversity and inclusion to join the engineering profession. He highlighted the challenges facing engineering in Africa and the role of engineering and technology in development, with emphasis on IR4.0 and construction 4.0 models to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). According to the guest speaker, for Africa to achieve its SDGs target, human capital development, engineering institutional capacity building and international cooperation are major keys to development, prosperity and capacity building. In his welcome address, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Emmanuel Aluyor informed the participants that the institution is keying into the digitalization of its academic programmes through the deployment of digital teaching tools which enabled it to complete the 2019/2020 academic session on the CANVAS Learning Management System. In his remarks, the Chairman of the event and President, Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN), Ali Rabiu, noted that technology is the imperative to the driving of development in Africa. The Immediate past Pro-Chancellor and Chairman, Governing Council of the university, Emeritus Professor T.O.K Audu, in his goodwill message, reiterated that Edo University is a trail blazer in technological innovation and expressed hope that the university sustains the success, especially as the world looks forward to the university for solutions to world challenges. One of the participants at the event, Hon Pascal Ugbome connended the university’s high standard. The event, which was well attended by parents, staff and students of the university, also had in attendance, the Chancellor of the University, Dr. Aderemi Makanjuola, the Speaker, Edo House of Assembly, Hon Frank Okiye, the Chief of Staff to Edo State Governor, Mr. Ethan Uzamere, as well as vice-chancellors of other universities, rectors of polytechnics, staff of National Universities Commission, industry experts, members of COREN, members of the Federation of African Engineering Organisation, and media professionals, among others.