The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority, Mr. Uche Orji, in this interview provides an update on the activities at the government agency since the beginning of the year; he spoke about the level of work at the Second Niger Bridge, the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, as well as other projects being handled by the investment authority. Orji believes that with the quality of Nigerian healthcare practitioners working across the world, the country has a competitive advantage if it is able to fix the challenges in its heath sector and address the brain drain. Obinna Chima brings the excerpts: Can you give a brief on NSIA activities since the beginning of the year?
So, year-to-date many things have occurred that have affected our programmes and our plans. You can attest to the fact that I don’t think anybody I know today has executed anything they had planned to execute at the beginning of the year. Whatever you planned to do in February or March has not happened and even if you decided to go ahead with it, it would have been completely different from whatever the intention was. It has been a very eventful period. We first of all made sure that all our employees are safe, which is very important. We ended up with a situation whereby many people worked from home during the lockdown period. Even up till now, we have maintained only about 40 per cent from our workforce physically present. But by this week we would resume work fully. So, the first thing was to keep our employees safe. The second thing is the Fund’s performance itself. The Fund has absolutely done relatively better than most of our peers. Of course, we don’t count our chickens before they hatch as the year hasn’t ended. But if you think about the whole volatile market environment, we have actually maintained a market position in most of our funds, which is in anyway keeps us in a very good position. We set up these Funds to earn steady returns. What I can assure you is that no matter how volatile the market is, we set up the NSIA to ensure that we get stable returns and it has been profitable. We have executed a number of projects. On Infrastructure Fund, which is the one we tend to focus a lot on, we have executed a number of projects. We have done very well in that regards. With our healthcare projects, we commissioned two diagnostic centres – one in Kano, in March, even though it has been operational since December last year; also, we commissioned one in Umuahia in August this year. So, we have many more projects in the pipeline and over the next 12 months, we expect to also execute three more. One is the centre for advanced medicine in Abuja and two other specialist centres that deal with different aspects of therapy. But, we haven’t made up our final decision on where those ones would be. So, like I said, in terms of healthcare, we have 14 projects in healthcare. Also, along with Global Citizen, we have also created Nigeria Solidarity Support Fund. This Fund is for people that want to donate and help Nigeria fight Covid-19. The Fund is going to be used in building healthcare centres. It is a Fund that is owned by Global Citizen, but the NSIA is the Fund manager. So, that has been launched and there is a website available for that. I want people to be aware of that initiative. So, another thing has to do with our agricultural programme. In agriculture, we have a number of interventions. Firstly, we are the managers of the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative. We also direct investment in a demonstration farm, which has about 3,000 hectares in Nassarawa State and it is doing well. This is part of the NSIA-UFF, which is the South African – Dutch specialist agricultural investment company. Remember that in 2016, we launched a joint fund targeted at $200 million to invest in agriculture in Nigeria. So, we are speaking to so many other state governments such as Ebonyi, Edo, farm managers in Kano and others. So, we have a lot of states on the pipeline and I will like to say that the joint fund with the UFF has been successful. So, I am pleasantly surprised by the success being shown by that farm and it has been profitable. The average farm in Nigeria produces about two to two and half tonnes per hectare of maize. But we are currently producing seven tonnes per hectare of maize and by the time all the mechanised equipment are installed, we would be targeting 13 tonnes per hectare and we intend to do this in other areas where there are joint funds. But biggest problem with the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative is that it suffered the full impact of the COVID-19. It was such that transportation was affected. When COVID-19 started, we found out that the transportation time for raw materials was extended. Before COVID -19, it used to take three days for a truck to go from Port Harcourt to Kano. But, during COVID-19, that transportation time almost became eight to nine days. While we were there, Indorama which is the biggest and only supplier of urea shut down. But things are back to normal now, but it affected that period. So that was really one area where we saw the impact of COVID-19. The final thing is the roads. Many of you may not have been able to have been able to go back to the Second Niger Bridge again since the last time I took some of you there. The decking is ongoing. If you go there you’ll see a bridge at one side of the decking. Work is going on there and I think it’s over 47 per cent completed now. The Lagos-Ibadan Expressway has similar level of completion as well as the Onitsha-Kano Road. Now, let me tell you, that is a public-private partnership (PPP). The Ministry of Works awarded those contracts and they completed the design. The NSIA is the fund manager. We have not had a full chance to have those projects under our control. At the moment we are working on a partnership basis and there will be a full concession signed very soon that will hand them over to the NSIA. But we have been funding this project since August 2018 and we’re going to the market to raise money to finish these projects. If you remember, these were the projects for which we were given the funds that were recovered from Late General Sanni Abacha. We have received the money from the United States government that was recovered from the Island of Jersey. So, we have deployed the money. So, we have so many things going on at the NSIA. You also know that most of our investee companies suffered some sort of delays in their project. And finally, I’m sure you seen the announcement of Infraco by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), where the NSIA, the African Finance Corporation and the central bank are coming together to create an infrastructure company. More details about it would be announced later. The idea is to create as much vehicles as much as possible to help drive the development of infrastructure in Nigeria. We are co-developers and investors in the Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN) as well as the Family Homes Fund. We believe that if we develop all these types of companies, it would make the financial market in Nigeria very efficient and effective. So, these are some of the things that have been happening over the past six months. It has been busy here at the NSIA. But in a nutshell, one of the things that make us proud is that we are have remained consistent in terms of profitability. Yes, it has been tough here in the past few months, but, year-to-date, returns have been descent. Around April this year, the federal government announced that about $150 million would be drawn from the Stabilisation Fund. Has that money been given to the government? The money has been made available, but we are in the process of transferring it. I will explain why in a minute. Yes, it has been called officially. At the time in April, it was announced, but now it has been called and we’ve just agreed the exchange rate mechanism for which that has to be transferred to the central bank. So, the answer is yes, it has been called and it will probably leave our account in the next few days. As you know very well with government’s announcement and action, they do take time. So that is ongoing. To be honest, we’ve liquidated all the investments from which the money was needed as far back as April. It’s just a matter of the process of finally transferring the money. As you all know, the government has its processes. I don’t think the money would be here within the next two weeks, so technically it’s gone. It’s just a matter of paper work. The federal government appears to be ceding more major projects to the NSIA for execution, what informed that and when will be the Second Niger Bridge and other major projects you are handling be finalised? The NSIA was set up to enhance Nigeria’s infrastructure. Secondly, the NSIA by its law is able to raise private capital, alongside public capital and this is part of what can make a project move faster. Government doesn’t have the resources and the NSIA can raise external capital from pension funds and other investors. So, combining public and private capital is the way now to deliver on infrastructure projects and the NSIA is the only entity of government set up to do that. So that I think are the reasons why that decision was taken to cede more projects to the NSIA. For the state of the projects, let me explain two things: These projects were already ongoing and the Ministry of Works had awarded those contracts. The only one that the NSIA was involved in from the very beginning was Second Niger Bridge. The other two were already awarded by the Ministry of Works. So the NSIA came in midway and had to inherit a contract. In the partnership, part of what we’re trying to do is make sure the nature the contract for these projects is acceptable to private investors. The Second Niger Bridge was designed to be acceptable to private investors. So we have not taken the full concession for the other two at the moment. The government has given us their own contributions and the NSIA has put its own contribution around already and we’ll be working together to deliver the project if that makes any sense. So, I think it’s important to understand that the NSIA was brought in by the government to ensure public, private partnership on the project. The other thing that the NSIA was able to do with the projects was to commercialise them. If you look at some of these projects, they were not designed to be toll roads for example, so there is an element of having to be redesigned so that they are tollable. So that is ongoing. Another thing is the funding structure is such that the federal government will put some money and the NSIA is putting its money from third parties to finish the project. Where we are, the Second Niger Bridge, the NSIA’s involvement in that project has been as far back as 2014. So we were there from the very beginning, but the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and Abuja-Kano road, we were not there. So, there are some things the Ministry of Works still needs to tidy up as conditions precedent. For example there are some debts owed to the contractors running many years before we even got involved and we don’t want to put our heads in there and thereafter inherit those debts. So, we are making sure those things are sorted out. There are also design issues. But we are particular about the legacy debts issues because as you know, anything government is doing, especially if it has gone through several administrations, there would have been issues and all those stuffs have to be completely taken care of before we can now take full ownership and then bring investors in. So, the construction is going on and we are managing government funds for those projects and disbursing according to government’s instructions. So, you will see some of those project now being handed over to us before the end of this years. But, not entirely everything. For example, the Abuja – Kano, there have been concerns about the delay and part of it has to do with the nature of the contract. For the Second Niger Bridge, we are working very hard on it and I am confident that we would finish it before the end of 2022. Actually, we are talking about February 2022 for the current section of it, but the access road would take some time to complete. But the part we are handling, which is 11.7 kilometres of the bridge, should be ready by the first quarter of 2022. Lagos- Ibadan Expressway, also before the end of 2022, again because of the delay caused by Covid-19; Abuja-Kano road, once the Federal Ministry of Works is done with a few things that they need to handle, I should be able to give an updated timeline on that project. So, that is where we are now. The fund raising is going to keep us busy next year because we don’t have all the money; but we have a substantial chunk of the money. We have enough money to keep us going until the end of next year. So, by early next year we would do the fund raising, so that there would be no break in construction because of money. You are aware that the East –West Road was one that had to be returned to the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs as we could not agree on a number of things on the execution plan. We returned the money given to us by government that was earmarked for the East-West road to the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning and transferred the project back to the Ministry of Niger Delta. So, the East-West Road is no longer part of the projects we are handling. For Mambilla, there are a couple of things with it and there are legal issues outstanding as well. So, those projects are all ongoing. So, that is the status of the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF), which all these projects come under. With all your interventions in the health sector, especially with the specialised health centres, are those facilities affordable to Nigerians such that nobody would be denied treatment based on cost? Let me start this way, if you need to treat yourself for cancer, the closest you can go to is Ghana for the kind of equipment we have in Nigeria presently. Quite frankly, I hate it when people make comparison because ours is more superior by far. In Ghana, I was told that the price currently is almost four times for what you pay for same treatment at our centre in Lagos. That is Ghana. You haven’t gone to Dubai, Germany, Italy, Isreal, UK, United States, India or Saudi Arabia. Some even go to South Africa. These are all the places Nigerians go for medical tourism. We are the cheapest. For Ghana, a complete cost for radiotherapy for 30 days, our price is one quarter what they pay in Ghana. Remember that you have to pay for somebody to go with you; that person has to stay in a hotel and you have to bear additional cost. So, it is not free, but ours so cheap. That is because we chose at the NSIA to prioritise healthcare than to prioritise profit. The plan we have is to run them not for profit, but it will take a long for us to recoup our investment and then hand it over to LUTH, Kano or Umuahia. So, in terms of affordability, I know that the most affordable thing is to have it for free, but it is not. Another thing I like to say is we don’t have health insurance, maybe we should talk about that. I know we don’t have endowments and foundations, maybe we should talk about that. So, people can put these things up. So, the point I am making is that we must be our brother’s keeper. I have said it before and many times that a lot of people in the United States cannot afford cancer treatment in the United States and yet there are people who are wealthy, who were able to put together Foundations to help them. The money we invested here is the Future Generation Fund, so we must bring it back. Otherwise, your children and my children would ask us what happened. So, let all of us pool our resources together for this. That is why I am very thrilled and proud of NSIA’s partnership with Global Citizen, which is a global entity based in the United State. It brings people who are top there in the society to be philanthropic and bring money into health. They are targeting to raise N20 billion, which they would use to help each of the 774 local government areas in developing primary healthcare centres. So, that is the kind of thing I want to see more of. So, the best I can do is to make sure the specialised health centres are competitively priced. The other thing about this cancer centre which people don’t understand is that it is not about getting money to by the equipment, the cost of those things is like two months profit for the NSIA, based on how we are running now. But the biggest challenge was getting the doctors, the oncologists and the radio therapists. So, we built a training centre at LUTH so that we can treat people and once we get to that point where we now have a proper base of highly skilled people that we can use, we are going to populate the facility in so many other places. So, everybody keep asking me when are we establishing same facility in their state; I can do that, the equipment is not the problem, the problem is who will operate them. So, we are spending money on training people. I will love for this country to not have to worry about cancer. But unfortunately, it is the harsh reality of our existence today, but we must address it head on. To that extent, I want this country to be a centre of excellence such that people would be coming from other parts of the world for treatment. Are you aware that people to Eastern Europe to go and do medical treatment? That is because the quality is high and the cost is cheap. Why do people go to India? It’s because it is cheap and quality is high. One area that Nigeria has competitive advantage from the developed world is medicine. We have trained doctors working in the United States, England, working everywhere in the world. So, if we treat our doctors well and keep them, people would come here for treatment. I am more than impressed by the doctors we have in this country. After my father’s death, I call the Chief Medical Director to say how much it will take to fix the hospital. So, that’s the beginning of us doing all these things. How much savings do we have in the Sovereign Wealth Fund presently and looking at what has happened globally since the outbreak of the virus, what lessons do you think the country can draw from this in terms of saving into the SWF? So, the government has given us $1.75 billion and they have called $150 million. At a certain point we were between $2.1 billion and $2.2 billion of total assets. I will actually like to speak more to what the government has contributed, so at the end of the year, we will sit down and look at the returns. But all I can tell you is that it is a very comfortable entity and if you take out the $150 million the government has asked for, the government’s contribution is $1.6 billion. But in addition, there was an additional contribution of $30 billion, the $311 million recovered Abacha asset that was transferred to the NSIA. All of these are third party management, but they are contribution in a sense and are added to our assets under management. So, we have the NSIA-managed funds. There are about three of the third-party managed funds, which includes the contribution to the PIDF, which has been spent on the projects – of which there’s about $900 million contributed by the government; later the Abacha funds of $311, which takes it to $1.2 billion and there’s a money we are managing for the Debt Management Office and there is money we are managing for the federal government separately in naira, which is N30 billion. So, every country has been affected by this virus. This government of today has done more than I expected; because oil price collapsed and yet somehow, $750 million was contributed, out of which $150 million was taken back due to the recession and collapse in oil price. So, I think it is very important that we point that out. The lesson we are learning now is what we should have learnt between 1973 and 1974. In 1973/1974, the OPEC crises happened, the oil sector ballooned and the Middle Eastern countries started setting up Sovereign Wealth Funds in 1976/1978. Abu Dhabi and Norway set up theirs around that period. That was when people started saving. So, the truth about it is that this is something that should have done since the 80s. Those people that set up their SWF then are better prepared. So, where we are now, we just need to prepare ourselves for the future, to make sure that we are ready.