Fleet owners in the south eastern part of Nigeria are set to enjoy a special promotion scheme for bulk purchases of TVS King tricycles made from authorised dealers. At a trade event which rounded off in Umuahia and Aba, both in Abia State on Wednesday, the management team of Simba Group, distributors of Nigeria’s number one brands in the tricycle, motorcycle and power bike sectors assured their premium customers of mouth watering deals as a reward for their patronage. The Team stormed the venues with their newly signed brand ambassador and former Nigeria football captain, Kanu Nwankwo. At the well attended events, Kanu said: “Rewarding their customers and making them feel good is not a new thing at Simba. In fact, we can say it is in their DNA. Since their arrival on the scene, many years ago, their empowerment programmes for their dealers and customers have always been top-notch and even now what they are giving to Nigerians is something that cannot be quantified. Of course you know, they’re the number 1 keke in Nigeria and their customer relations and after sales service are equally top of the range. “I am particularly proud of my association with the company, especially because of what they are doing for Nigerians and not only when we patronise them. As a company, they do not only think about the business.” While thanking the fleet owners for their continuous patronage, the national head, TVS 3-wheeler Sales, Simba Group, Mr. Amit Seth assured them of the superior quality of the TVS King brand. He also assured them of the continuity of the company’s robust after sales service policy which they have enjoyed for years. On his part, the Head of Marketing, Simba Group, Mr Karthik Govindarajan, once again, briefed the dealers on the durability, quality, after sales service and spare parts availability for TVS King tricycles and motorcycles. He further emphasised that customer engagement is a cardinal policy of the Group. “This is part of a series of activities we do across the country; in all 36 states. We believe it is completely important to listen to the customers. Only then will we understand their peculiar needs, how to meet them and thus serve them better. So, we repeatedly engage with fleet owners, dealers, mechanics, riders… we do training for riders, we do so many charity events. We were in Kano earlier in the month where Kanu declared open our latest ultra-modern Workshop in the city, we are in Abia now and this will continue until we cover every nook and cranny of Nigeria.” The dealers were later introduced to the new features of the Simba TVS King tricycle by the National Service Head of TVS, Mr. Nitesh Kumar who reiterated the nine-month full warranty for all TVS King tricycles offered by Simba. The Nigeria football legend later presented gifts to the invited fleet owners and dealers on behalf of the Simba TVS family.