By Emma Okonji A book titled: ‘The Law and Practice of Private Equity’ will be launched next week. The book, which is authored by Professor Fabian Ajogwu, offers an invaluable, timely guide to the law and practice of private equity. The book, which would be unveiled at a virtual book presentation on Wednesday, October 21, 2020, examines the concept of private equity and highlights its significance as an alternative financing model that helps to bridge the funding gaps for businesses and companies. According to a statement by Ebunoluwa Ade-Taiwo of Kenna Partners, a good number of start-ups and entrepreneurs who do not have the requisite capital to see ideas to fruition and must rely on outside financiers or external funding options, will see the book as a good companion to explore business opportunities. “The inability to access traditional financing sources such as bank loans and issuance of public stock to meet their needs has been a fundamental factor impeding the growth of businesses in Africa,” Ade-Taiwo said. According to him, “Private equity is a crucial alternative to bridge the funding gap in many developing countries in Africa due to the lack of access to capital or lack of adequately developed routes to obtaining funding. Research shows that private equity investors are almost invariably attracted to businesses which have the potential to evolve in ways that create value and find traditional financing challenging to arrange.” He added that the emergence of PE funding as a reliable financing option in emerging markets and the desire to share optimum practical knowledge on a crucial subject, inspired Ajogwu to author the book “The book, published by Global leader in law publications, Thomson Reuters, is available in both hardback and e-book versions. A wholesome exposition of the subject as illustrated in the book, will contribute significantly to the development and practice of private equity in Nigeria. “The book presents a practical approach to private equity investing and deal-making that protects the interests of stakeholders – investors and investees. It analyses the relevant legal framework to help those engaging in Private Equity deals to do so within the provisions of the law and regulatory requirements.” Ade-Taiwo concluded that, ‘The Law and Practice of Private Equity’ would benefit entrepreneurs, investors, regulators, financial experts, policymakers, attorneys, lecturers, and students. “It is envisaged that the book will increase knowledge of the subject of private equity and ultimately, contribute to economic development and prosperity.”