The association of Praying Mothers Behind Nigerian Youths, PMBNY has thrown its full weight behind the ongoing EndSARS protest across the country to put an abrupt end to the incessant brutality of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS. The protest, which was launched on Thursday, October 11, 2020 has been getting more intense by the day, and the Federal government is equally working towards ensuring that the streets are safe without the outfit. Speaking to newsmen, the Association Spokesperson, Uri Ngozichukwuka stated that the need for public outcry against SARS has been long overdue and the timing is accurate. “We have come together to pray for our children as mothers. We have prayed to for strength for this generations to take up the fight and we support the movement wholeheartedly “Our children are being killed by the day, by those who have been paid and mandated to protect them. They are on the streets too. The best we can do is pray for their protection. “So far, Nigerian Police have killed at least 10 people since the start of protests against callous operations of the gutless SARS” “We want them to know we are praying for them and the wall of oppression, intimidation, and gruesome killing by SARS shall fall before them as our God liveth”, she said. Odebele Adebiyi, a key member of the association, addressing the crowd, said that she had personally witnessed a being stopped and harassed by SARS officers. “None of our children are safe if we continue to stay in the comfort of our homes allowing people to speak and say it does not affect them,” she said.
“Nigeria is one of the most vibrant and dynamic countries in Africa. Sadly, it has had the misfortune of being ruled by shambolic, corrupt governments. “But now the country, which has long been divided along religious and ethnic lines, has come together against police brutality, showing the power and spirit of the Nigerian people when pushed to their limit. “ Abosede Osho added. Modupe Oni, the association secretary added that there is the need for an urgent review of the use of force and firearms by police officers against protesters and thorough, an independent and impartial investigation into all cases of violence including deaths that occurred during the #EndSARS protests.