The automobile industry plays one of the prime factors in the economic condition of a country. In recent decades, the automobile industry has shown rapid increment and is expected to boost even further in the coming days. Now, the Nigerian market doesn’t want to be left-off in this global pursuit. The automobile industry’s idea didn’t seem possible due to Nigeria’s heavy economic dependency, but that’s no longer the case today. The government in-time realized the potential possibility and established several manufacturing plants and repair centers in various corners of Nigeria. Here’s an impressive list of made-in-Nigeria cars featured in 2020; they share economic value, reliability, and comfort. Not all Nigerian are capable of luxury and mid-range cars, alternatively used cars are there as an option. While you consider buying a used car in the market, it’s extremely important to get a history check of a vehicle. A quick Revs check to help you get detailed information about the car’s history. Buying a used car with a bad history is a headache for a new buyer. The write-off details, financial report, registration details, and other important information in your hand put you on the safe side. 1. IVM 6490 A Innoson is an indigenous automobile manufacturing company located in Nigeria. Innoson 6490 A is accurately considered as a Sedan variant of Innoson Fox Hatchback sharing the same engine and multiple features. A car comes with a compact Sedan car design suitable for a family person. At first glance, it’s hard to determine if IVM 6490 A is a Nigerian manufactured car. IVM 6490 A has a 1.5-liter 4-cylinder engine that produces a power of 109 Horsepower. The Sedan 6490 A can accelerate from 0 to 60 miles in 11.5 seconds top. It’s a front-engine and front-wheel drive vehicle. Moreover, it has a four-speed automatic transmission and 5-speed automatic transmission. The vehicle is known for its comfort, reliability, and safety braking system. You can buy the compact Sedan at Innoson dealer outlets anywhere in Nigeria. 2. Kia Optima Kia motors  manufactured and launched its first Kia Optima model in Nigeria in 2014. The made-in-Nigeria Optima got a whole lot of impressive reviews from its customers. If you are looking for a mid-level Sedan then, Kia Optima should be on your test-drive list. Optima is an average, sleek, stylish, and value-packed car you can buy anywhere in the Nigerian Kia showroom. IVM 6490 A has a 2.4-liter 4-cylinder engine that produces a power of 200 Horsepower. The folks at Kia have a good run on turning out vehicles that are well built, value-packed, and fun to drive. Kia Optima is a prime example of Kia’s winning formula in the Nigerian market. The build quality in the interior and exterior are clean and contemporary. 3. Peugeot 301 Peugeot is a true Nigerian automobile manufacturing company located at Kaduna. The company has been delivering impressive car models like Peugeot 301 which is best in safety, storage, and overall features. Peugeot 301 is an entry-level model manufactured in 2015. The overall design of Peugeot 301, from the signature grille to the headlamps to the tail light, is better than any other typical car look. Peugeot has been manufacturing car models with cutting-edge design while keeping the price range to an average. The exterior of Peugeot 301 is no-nonsense; it has all attitudes a top-end vehicle shares. The car is sporty, chunky, and elegant that you’d find in high-end vehicles. The front hub has all the basic techniques and features like Bluetooth connectivity, automatic AC controls, radio, and many more. Peugeot 301 has a generation timeline where the specs and features vary from one another. The recent 2017 Peugeot 301 has a 1.6-liter 4-cylinder engine that produces a power of 115 Horsepower. 4. Nissan Almera People demand a stylish car and perform practical on the road. These two used to be exclusive car qualities in past days, but Nissan Almera has picked the right decision to be a popular choice among Nigerian. Almera is a classic Sedan built with Nissan’s DNA. Nissan Almera has a 1.5-liter 4-cylinder engine that produces decent power of 101 Horsepower. It features boomerang-shaped headlights, a more massive drill, and a revised bumper offering a more angular look rather than radial design. The interior of Almera has a classic touch with essential car technology for the top-of-the-line variant. 5. Hyundai Grand i10 The Stallion Group holds the capitalization of Hyundai Grand i10 manufactured in Lagos, Nigeria. Specially designed, the 2015 model of Hyundai Grand i10 has set a solid benchmark of being the most affordable, reliable, and elegant model in the Nigerian market. The sale service of Hyundai Grand i10 shares good market value. The overall interior and exterior of Grand i10 feel premium. It has a 1.2-liter 4-cylinder engine that produces decent power of 75 BHP. Hyundai Grand i10 is an absolute value for money with low maintenance costs.