By Rebecca Ejifoma The long-awaited Season four of Urban Kitchen show, otherwise known as ‘Cooking meals on budget,’ is set to premiere second week in October at its sparkling ultramodern kitchen studio in Magodo, Lagos with Chinonso Arubayi continuing as its host. The show, which will run on 13 terrestrial TV stations across Nigeria, will air on three stations in the US, two in the UK, also as in-flight entertainment on select airlines and on major VOD platforms. According to Arubayi, Urban Kitchen is a show that teaches both man and woman how to cook on a low budget with a confident bargaining power. “As a woman, I’ve hosted a couple of shows. Urban Kitchen is different and very special to me. First of all, I’m a foodie. I love food and love really nice tasty food. At the same time, I like to save my money,” she added with a chuckle while speaking at the studio. Since she was unveiled in 2018 as the hostess of the show, Arubayi had made it a reality that one could have one’s way with bargaining in any market. Whilst sharing her experience with chefs, she revealed that many had struck some good deals that are quite impressive. For a foodventurer like Arubayi, this show is truly an eye opening experience as it has demystified the culinary space, making the kitchen suitable for both male and female. “This show is not just for women. It is for men, too. That is why we have had some male chef come on board. We are of course trying to challenge the idea that it is only a woman that should be in the kitchen,” the one-time beauty queen enthused. The idea of Urban Kitchen sprung from the pool of ideas of the initiators – Daodu Felix and Jude Chukwuka – who wanted to display Nigeria from a positive angle to the world. Their interest stretched beyond politics, religion, and sexual orientation; hence, they were left with two unifiers, sports and food. Urban Kitchen was formed to reflect every aspect of the Nigerian culinary lifestyle. Its ultimate quest is to bridge the gap with its urban kitchen featuring local dishes. While creating content for food, the creator and producer of the show, Felix, said they saw the need to fuse in entertainment. Since it was officially launched in 2015, Urban Kitchen, owned by SATE TV, has featured celebrity guests such as Ramson Noauh, Basket Mouth, Denrele, Richard Mofe-Damijo, 9ice, and Pasuma amongst others. Each season is loaded with 26 episodes to relish. Participants are meant to send in a video of their adventure to the market, their bargaining power and their kitchen skills. While the show will premier in October, its food channel, SATE TV will be coming up in seven months. The show is open to prospective to send in their videos and get a chance to cook for their favorite celebrity at the season 4.