By Olawale Ajimotokan The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, has stated that laws to ensure that established cases of rape are no longer bailable in the country, to serve as a deterrent to culprits, are in the offing. She made the revelation yesterday during the official presentation of a compendium titled: ‘My COVID-19 Story: Voice of Hope and Resilience’, which chronicled different experiences of young girls during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. Aliyu, who was represented by the Deputy Director Administration in the office of FCT Minister of State, Mrs. Maria Ogbonnaya-Ngwu, said the FCT Administration has established a centre to address cases of girls who are abused or suppressed. “It is also gratifying to know that our President, Muhammadu Buhari, believes in the worth of the girl-child. We have been able to present to him various cases of gender-based violence in the Federal Executive Council. “Let me assure you that laws will soon be rolled out to serve as deterrent to culprits that are guilty or people found culpable of abusing the girl-child. Unlike before, where the rape cases were bailable, now we are working towards making it not a bailable offence anymore,’’ she said. The minister said the FCTA had been able to encourage the girl-child to believe in themselves not as subordinate to any other child, adding the FCT Administration will continue to preach this experience and embark on advocacy. In her remarks, the founder and President of Helpline Foundation for the Needy, Dr. Jumai Ahmadu, noted that the unexpected outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic has re-defined global health and lifestyle, stressing that governments across the world have adopted concrete measures to stop the spread of the virus and reduce the negative impact on the socio-economic life of their citizens. Ahmadu further noted that the virus has demystified technologies of the advanced countries, including developing nations, noting that if there’s anything the virus has taught humans, it is the supremacy of the creator.