In a striking resemblance to the current crisis, #EndSARS protests and ensuing violence, rocking Africa’s most populous nation – Nigeria –, the founder of the Synagogue Church of All Nations, TB Joshua, had pronounced a prophecy of things to come to his congregants during a Sunday service on July 14, 2013. In a video of the service that has resurfaced on the Internet, the clergyman pinpointed a prophecy that seems to be unravelling now. Excerpts: God showed me this vision, not sitting down writing an article. This is not a press conference. This is a vision I saw.
Carry your youth along.
I am seeing a revolution. When I say ‘revolution,’ I mean every revolution starts by protest. When it starts by protest, at that protest, the power can stop them, they have the ability to stop them but when it becomes revolution, no one can stop a revolution. Revolution means everyone is ready to go for it. I repeat again, I am seeing a revolution. I am seeing people taking to the streets. At the beginning of the protest, instead of revolution, I say protest. It’s a parable because when it started you will think it is a protest but at the end of the day, you’ll realize that this is a revolution. You can stop protests but you cannot stop a revolution. Every revolution starts with a protest. It will come, people will carry placards. You’ll carry the police and everything, you will stop them. But when it becomes a revolution, everybody is ready to die so you can’t stop it. At the beginning of that protest, I call it a protest because at the beginning of every revolution it looks like protests. It might be stopped at the beginning. Eventually, it will become so big that it cannot be stopped. This I see happen. Nigeria pray. What Is The Way Out?
God has given us the way out.
Job creation for the youth and the creation of a new social value system. No matter the education the youth have, whether PhD or professor, they feel they have no place in politics and there is no job to keep them busy, there must be a new orientation. In politics, the youth should be considered for important positions such as assistant to elders, while the elders are ministers, the youth should be junior ministers, in all appointments into the departments of politics or administration, youths should be considered as second in command. By doing this, we are training them to take over tomorrow. This is because they are leaders of tomorrow and this is also because a revolution is a weapon of change that is coming. This is the vision I am not preaching and I am not teaching. This is what I saw.
This is the vision I saw. Revolution is coming when people will take to the street because life has no value anymore to the people. Carry your youth along in your politics and administration especially in ruling your country. I have said it; none of this will go without being fulfilled. Read about me and my track record, this is the voice of God.
When we carry the youth along, whenever there is a revolt or situation, they will be available to readily speak to their colleagues because people that are going for revolution or protest, 90 percent of them are youths and they will like to hear the voice of their colleagues better than anybody talking to them. If the junior minister comes out or junior chairman comes out to talk to the protesters and they know he’s a junior chairman, he’s there to represent them; they will listen to him better than anyone.
The youths want to see themselves being represented in every area of life. That is the answer to the problem coming; the coming ominous signs are disastrous As sure as God lives, I T.B. Joshua will tell you only what God says. If I am hated, persecuted, or intimidated because of my accurate prophetic utterances, blessed be to God who gives the prophecy. The day will declare who is in the right and who is in the wrong, says the Lord.