Goddy Egene
Siemens Energy and partners are holding a major Middle East and Africa (MEA)-focused virtual conference, themed: ‘Shaping the Energy of Tomorrow,’ from October 19 – 21, 2020. The conference is to drive forward the sustainability and decarbonisation agenda at a defining moment in the energy industry.
With the long-term impacts of Covid-19 and a fundamental shift in energy markets still being realised, now is the moment for the energy industry to collaborate to realise a future that is sustainable, efficient, affordable and accessible, in line with the ideals laid out by UN Sustainable Goal 7, they noted in a statement. The MEA Energy Week conference is being held in partnership with the Association of German Chambers of Industry and Commerce (DIHK); the Arab-German Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Ghorfa); the Global Manufacturing and Industrialisation Summit (GMIS); and Masdar, a global leader in renewable energy and sustainable urban development, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Abu Dhabi government’s Mubadala Investment Company. The launch of the event comes shortly after the listing of Siemens Energy on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange on September 28, following a spin-off from Siemens AG.
An estimated one-sixth of the world’s power generation was already based on technologies from Siemens Energy.
“With this important legacy comes significant responsibility; to help shape the direction of the future of energy sector, with a focus on sustainability, innovation, and decarbonisation, for the benefit of society. “Around 850 million people on our planet still lack access to reliable electricity, this must be improved. As an independent company, Siemens Energy has the entrepreneurial flexibility to help shape the global transformation of the energy markets in a sustainable and economically successful manner,” Siemens Energy Middle East Managing Director, Dietmar Siersdorfer, said.
“But this change can only be achieved with global awareness, willingness to adapt and strong partnerships. That is what makes this event so important. The impressive list of participants highlights the desire to collaborate on finding solutions to the challenges,” Siersdorfer added. “The ‘Shaping the Energy of Tomorrow’ virtual conference is a remarkable initiative that aims to create an excellent platform to discuss the essential economic challenges of today and tomorrow.
“The event brings together energy industry leaders and policymakers at a time of potentially drastic change for the energy industry,” Chief Executive of Foreign Trade and Member of the Executive Board, DIHK, Dr. Volker Treier, said. “Together with Siemens Energy, Arab decision-makers and energy experts joining this conference, we are aiming to generate more collaborations to advance a sustainable energy future through the implementations of ambitious agendas and the adoption of new technologies and innovations,” Secretary General, Ghorfa Arab-German Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Abdulaziz Al-Mikhlafi explained. The speakers’ line-up would feature numerous regional ministers, CEOs, energy and finance industry leaders and Siemens Energy experts for the eight panel sessions.
Ministers from Benin, Iraq, Jordan, Morocco, Nigeria and the UAE would participate in the conference. Senior executives from Abu Dhabi Transmission and Despatch Company, ADNOC, Crescent Petroleum, DEWA, Euler Hermes, Masdar, Mubadala and Saudi Aramco have also confirmed their participation. The panelists would address the numerous challenges and opportunities that the energy industry faces amid the twin goals of improving access to energy and meeting growing demand on the one hand, while also doing so in an environmentally and financially sustainable manner.
Topics such as financing sustainable energy projects, integrating renewables into grids, incorporating digitalisation and automaton, decarbonising hydrocarbon intensive industries, and utilising green hydrogen would be at the forefront of panel discussions.