A group, ElectHer, will discuss the importance of women in decision-making at a virtual town hall meeting on the state of ‘Women’s political representation in Nigeria: mapping a clear pathway ahead of 2023.’ A statement issued by the group said the year 2020 heralded a new dawn for Nigeria and would go down in the annals of history as a remarkable year. Irrespective of social status, political affiliation, religious sentiments and ideologies, young Nigerians in one voice sought for change through a peaceful protest. In view of this, there is no better time than now to highlight the importance of women at the decision-making table. Our commitment as an organisation that was created to support women’s political advancement in Nigeria has informed the need to organise social discourse such as this town hall meeting to engage citizens who are ready to transform the political climate in Nigeria from what it is to a people-centric style of leadership. We believe women can make the much needed difference when elected into leadership positions, said Ibijoke Faborode, Co-founder and Executive Director ElectHER. Faborode said ElectHER is an end-to-end women’s political advancement that addresses the significantly low representation of Nigerian women in politics by engaging, encouraging, equipping (building capacity) , and enabling women(financing) to Decide, Run and Win elections. “We are at the moment in our country’s democratic history when we should be taking bold steps to raise a new breed of seasoned leaders. The lack of greater representation in the polity of our country is what reflects in current socio-economic situation. This town hall aims to convene citizens to discuss practical solutions that will advance women’s political representation ahead of 2023,” Abosede George-Ogan, Co-founder, ElectHER added. The Town hall meeting will hold virtually on the 1st of November at 4pm and participants can join in through the event link available at www.elect-her.org or send a link request to Communications@elect-her.org. Speaking at the event is Ms. Cynthia Mbamalu, Director of Programs Yiaga, Africa, Dr. Bilikisu Magoro Bilmor a development consultant and politician, Ms. Simi Fajemirokun a Social Entrepreneur, 2019 House of Representative Aspirant, Mr. Ibrahim Abdulkarim a Techpreneur, Political Activist and Campaign Finance Strategist and finally Hon. Seyi Adisa, member of the 9th Oyo State House of Assembly. The event will be hosted by Miss Khadijah Bello, a Senior Associate at Statecraft Inc. It is important to carry individual voices along when it comes to discussing political and socio-economic issues and that is why ElectHER creates and support discourses that will enable women leaders generate resources as well as scale their solutions.