Mary Nnah
Nigeria’s leading retailer of luxury watches, Polo Luxury has recently unveiled its highly anticipated timepiece for 2020, the Pasha De Cartier, an iconic watch, originally designed for the Pasha of Marrakesh in 1933. Considered to be the first waterproof watch from Cartier, the 2020 design pays homage to Cartier’s traditional watch-making style, combining the original 1980’s model with a more defined silhouette, and several innovative mechanisms and enhancements.
In 1985, the legendary watch designer Gérald Genta designed a version of the Cartier Pasha whose form is still celebrated. Boasting a network of some of the world’s most affluent brands and individuals, Polo Luxury Legacy of ground-breaking innovation is reiterated through its exclusive partnership with French watch brand, Cartier.
Founded by Louis-Francois in 1847, Cartier is a French jeweller that supplies luxurious treasures, mixing modern design with timeless flair. The brand is recognised for its high-quality workmanship and royal heritage; it was the supplier to the Royal Court of France during Napoleon III’s reign, and described by Edward VII as “the jeweller of kings, and the king of jewellers”.
With flagship locations in Paris, London, New York, Tokyo, and Shanghai, among others, Cartier has one of the most enviable claims in horology history: the purveyor of the world’s first men’s wristwatch, the Cartier Santos. Today, Cartier has a strikingly beautiful catalogue of some of the most sought-after timepieces in existence, including the Cartier Tank Solo, The Cartier Clé De Cartier, and the Pasha De Cartier.
According to the Executive Director at Polo Luxury, Jennifer Obayuwana, Cartier’s patented QuickSwitch system brings an element of modernity to the recently launched 2020 timepiece. She explained therefore that customers can customise between the steel, gold and leather straps for a truly personal look, complete with a sapphire crystal lens.
The Pasha De Cartier is available in stainless steel, 18K yellow gold, 18k pink gold, 18k white gold and diamonds. Commenting on the fruitful relationship between Polo Luxury and Cartier, Obayuwana, said further that the partnership between Cartier and Polo Luxury is a testament to Polo’s unrivaled positioning as West Africa’s leading retailer for high end goods.
“Since the beginning of our relationship 10 years ago, Polo Luxury has continued to prove itself to be the perfect ally for Cartier in this region, attracting opulent customers from across the world to shop the brand in our Nigeria based
boutique stores”, she added.
She revealed further that Cartier’s refined catalogue of luxury timepieces and jewellery are available for purchase exclusively at Polo Luxury, Nigeria. The Pharmacist-cum-musician stated that it has not been easy combining work in the medical world, music as well as being a family man.
“As a business man in the Medical Community, of course you have to be knowledgeable,professional, and disciplined on priorities. You have to know how to stay on schedule and not deviate from your daily routines but my family is my rock. “I never neglect any of my family needs or responsibilities. I try as much as possible to balance out my work, my family and my career.”
Yinka Rythmz is always quick to acknowledge his fans as he says, “my fans have been very supportive and dedicated to my craft all these years. I just want them to take time to enjoy this album just as much as I was so happy and excited to make it. I want them to spread the word out to the world that they are “MORE THAN SOMEBODY” regardless of what life is throwing at them. I love you all and I can’t wait for you all to experience my album in a movie”. The Akpase of West Coast, who reiterated that he is more than somebody, stated that the album unveiling was going to happen very soon. “It’s going to be all over the entertainment news, online blogs, newspapers and magazines”.