By Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Protesters under the auspices of #EndSARS Friday stormed Ado Ekiti, protesting against police brutality across the nation. The #EndSARS protesters, who converged on the popular Fajuyi Park in the state capital as early as 8AM barricaded the major road thereby causing traffic gridlock in the area. It was observed that many motorists heading to the bank road, Adebayo road and Basiri areas in Ado-Ekiti were stranded for hours and were forced to make a detour for alternative routes to their destinations. The peaceful protest was in continuation of the nationwide demonstration by youths against police brutality, calling on government to begin the process of massive reforms in the policing sector in the country. The state governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, who was on his way to the State House of Assembly for a State of the State address to mark his second anniversary as governor was forced to stop and speak to the protesters. Fayemi while reiterating that the youths had genuine agitation for an holistic reforms in the police, he appealed to them to continue their demonstration in a peaceful manner and avoid it being hijacked by hoodlums. The governor who had hectic time addressing the youths noted that the government at the federal and the state level had received their demands, saying actions are being taken towards renewing the confidence of the people in the police. According to the governor, ” When I was young, I can tell you that i participated in so many protests against the military and I want to say what you are doing now is not against the law because you have genuine reasons for protesting and we know it. “I will continue to appeal to you to remain peaceful as you are doing now and government is doing everything possible to address your concerns. You have to show more understanding with the government.” Fayemi assured the protesting youths that an end had come to police harassment and intimidation of innocent persons in the society. The protesters later stormed the House of Assembly when governor Fayemi was presenting the state of the state address and created atmosphere of unrest within the complex. It took the intervention of the police for Fayemi and other dignitaries to be whisked out of the place unhurt, as the protesters became unruly . Though, nobody was wounded but the atmosphere became charged as the police tried to contain the protesters.