The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki will today, Monday, October 26, 2020 swear in the 20-man Judicial Panel of Inquiry set up to look into the circumstances surrounding the activities of the disbanded Special Anti-Kidnapping and Robbery Squad (SARS) and the #EndSARS protests in the state. Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, in a statement, issued yesterday noted that the inauguration will take place at the New Festival Hall, Government House, Benin City by 12 noon prompt. The Panel is chaired by Hon. Justice Ada Ehigiamusoe (Rtd), while Mrs. Joyce Ugbodaga serves as Secretary. Other members of the Panel include Bishop Feb Idahosa, (Clergy); Francis Osayi, (ASUU); Comrade Osahon Obasuyi (NYC); Prest Aigbokhian (Civil Society); Mrs. Uloaku Uzamere (NCWS); Comrade Pius Efofan (NANS); Pius Okpere (#End SARS); Comrade Kola Edokpayi (#EndSARS) and Mrs. Felicia Monyei (Ministry of Justice). Others on the panel are: Ovenseri Otamere (NBA); Ogbidi Eromosele Godwin (#EndSARS); A. B. Thomas Esq. (Muslim); representative of security forces; Imafidon Imadeyogie Stephen (#EndSARS); Iyamu Osaro Culture (#EndSARS); Comrade Kelly Omokaro Osunbor (#EndSARS); Abraham Oviawe (#EndSARS) and Ralph Okhiria (NUJ). The terms of reference of the Panel are “to receive complaints and petitions from the general public, particularly victims or relatives of victims of police brutality and extra-judicial killings, and to recommend measures, including compensation and restitution, investigation and prosecution, as the circumstances warrant.” They are also “to advise on compensation or restitution to the victims, or- where the victim has been killed- to the family of the victim, based on conditions which shall be clearly laid out by the Committee; and to ensure that compensation is paid within 14 days of the decision to compensate.” The Panel will also recommend and direct the Attorney General to immediately prosecute all persons responsible for the various crimes committed; recommend measures to forestall reoccurrences in the future and make any other recommendations to government in furtherance of the mandate of this Committee.