Mikano International Limited has signed a partnership deal with Geely Automobile International Corporation as their strategic and exclusive partner of geely automotive in Nigeria. Mikano, in a statement, said the partnership has validated local assembly structure, assuring clients on the vast availability of spare parts. The statement further explained that Mikano has allocated to Geely, two modern warehouses with an approximate area of 7,500sqm each located in Karameh Industrial city facility along Ibadan expressway, Isheri-lfo Local Government. “For more than 27 years, Mikano has been providing premium quality products to the Nigeria market, by building global strategic alliances with the world’s largest manufacturers. “Its Partnership with Geely, is yet an important step towards extending this role of delivering premium quality products and services to the automotive sector,” it added. It disclosed that Geely is currently the owner of Volvo Car Group, and the biggest shareholder of Daimler AG (group to which Mercedes Benz belongs), which allowed it to acquire the highest global and future technologies in the automotive industry. “Its sales exceeded 2.1 million cars, placing it among the world’s Top car manufacturers.” The statement posited that over the past 10 years Geely invested more than $14 billion in R and D. It further disclosed that Geely would invest more in the next five years for use in research and development, in a commitment to providing, “the highest level of modern technologies in its industry and has recorded notable growth indexes.” “Some of the highlights of Geely’s growth includes: it owns 100 per cent of Volvo Car Group; owns 9.69 per cent of Daimler AG – Group to which Mercedes Benz belongs (becoming the largest shareholder); owns 100 per cent of London taxis; owns 100 per cent of American Flying Car Company – Terrafugia; Owns 100 per cent Link and Co (the Prestigious Brand from Geely); owns 51 per cent of Lotus, and 49.9 per cent of Proton. “Geely Holding Group has been ranked on Fortune Global 500 top companies, now for nine consecutive years.”