*58 police vehicles burnt, 13 vandalised *62 exhibits, private vehicles burnt, 9 vandalised *15 motorcycles, tricycles razed, 65 vandalised *520 suspects arrested, some looted items recovered By Chiemelie Ezeobi Taking stock of the losses incurred during and after the #EndSARS protest, the Lagos State Police Command on Tuesday said six policemen were killed while 38 others were injured, with some still in critical condition. The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, who disclosed this at the command headquarters in Ikeja, also revealed that 29 formations were either burnt or vandalised by hoodlums who hijacked the peaceful #ENDSARS protests across the state. He also paraded 520 suspects arrested for their alleged involvement in the wanton destruction and looting of both private and public property. The police also recovered some of the items looted from private businesses. According to Odumosu, the six policemen killed were ASP Yard Edward, attached to Denton Police Station; Inspector Olayinka Erinfolami of defunct Anti Kidnapping Unit (AKU); Inspector Adegbenro Aderibigbe, attached to Meiran Division; Sergeant Abejide Abiodun of Department of Operations (DOPs), State Headquarters, and two others attached to Orile Division. He said 58 police vehicles were burnt, 13 vandalised, while 62 vehicles belonging to individuals and those connected with some pending cases (exhibits) were burnt, in addition to nine other vehicles which were vandalised by the hoodlums. Odumosu also disclosed that 15 motorcycles and tricycles were torched and 65 vandalised at various locations across the state. After the widespread violence, Odumosu said the command was able to arrest a total of 520 suspects for various offences ranging from arson, robbery, murder, rioting, malicious damage and unlawful possession of firearms. Among those arrested, Odumosu said, was one Olamilekan Ibrahim, 19, alleged to have been among those who broke into a commercial bank and carted away cash and other valuables in Lekki. The police boss said he was arrested with N250,000 alleged to be his share of the loot from the banks, as well as a locally-made pistol. He said two suspects identified as Ebere Reuben, 29, and Samuel Oyediran, 16, were also arrested by RRS operatives for their involvement in burning of the BRT terminal at Berger and TVC Station in Lagos State, respectively. They were allegedly caught with left-over of some quantities of petroleum products with which they set the places ablaze. The police boss who acknowledged that those arrested were not peaceful #ENDSARS protesters, stated that it was a known fact armed hoodlums hijacked the protests and were responsible for series of killings, arson and looting recorded. He said: “Thorough investigation into the cases has commenced. Members of the public should be rest assured that they will be updated as investigation progresses. “At this juncture, I will like to appreciate officers and men of this command for their doggedness, gallantry and commitment to maintaining law and order and restoration of normalcy to the state. “Also, I commend the community leaders and stakeholders for their support in this regard, especially on recovery of the looted arms and ammunition and valuables. They have been so helpful. “Last but not the least the command appreciates other sister/security agencies for their support in the struggle for restoration of peace and harmony to the state. “Permit me to reassure the good people of Lagos State that we will leave no stone unturned in providing adequate security for all and sundry.” However, most of the suspects denied involvement in the violence alleging that they were picked up randomly during raids.