Fadekemi Ajakaiye FIPS Multilinks, a real estate development, management, and marketing company has launched its latest development, Penfield Estate, in Ibeju Lekki for residential and commercial housing projects. Penfield Estate is a premium residential and commercial development with CofO as title, and is located at Olomowewe town, in Ibeju-Lekki, off the Lekki Coastal road, said the company’s officials in a statement. The estate is in the neighbourhood of some prime projects like the Dufil prima factory, Adron Homes’ Rehoboth Gardens and the popular Dangote Refinery. The Ibeju Lekki community has recently recorded massive developmental activities as Dangote Refinery is set to commence operations. With the anticipation of a high influx of labour force towards the axis, property developers have begun launching residential properties as housing and investment options for potential residents and savvy investors respectively, and also commercial properties for businesses looking to set up logistics or warehousing operations within the highly industrial district. The Chief Executive Officer of FIPS Multilinks, Oladele Oluwatobi, in a statement shared insights on the development, stating that “the company is positioning its project to attract eagle-eyed investors who seek to invest in this project for either commercial or residential investments. He said it focuses on property investors, corporate workers, and companies looking to build warehouses and logistics around the axis. He also stated that “FIPS Multilinks is committed to providing affordable land and houses to Nigerians with verifiable titles that assures investors of a safe and healthy investment. “Penfield Estate comes with a CofO and is completely free from Government acquisition and any form of encumbrance. It is a guaranteed low-risk, high returns real estate investment and will be constructed with the integration of eco-friendly materials and to international standards.” He said plots are currently available at Penfield Estate at N3.75 million for 300sqm plot size and N7.5 million for 600 sqm plot size. “The company has flexible payment plans for investors, allowing them to spread payment for up to 12 months and also direct investment options that incorporate investors looking not to purchase but to simply fund the development of the estate with as little as 1 million naira and make up to 30% guaranteed annual returns on their investment. The General manager, Mr. Olaide Abimbola said there are economic benefits that the rapid development of Ibeju-Lekki has brought to the neighbouring settlements like Epe and encouraged the public to take advantage of the offerings of their other estates, including Royalville phase 1 in Imokun town and Royalville Phase 2 Ilara which is selling at N1 million and N1.5 million, respectively, for a 600sqm plot.