By Seriki Adinoyi At least six persons, including a traditional ruler, Da Chung Gyang Mwadkwon were on Monday night killed by unknown gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen in Wereng community of Riyom Local Government Area of Plateau State. A lawmaker representing Riyom Constituency in the Plateau State House of Assembly, Hon. Timothy Dantong confirmed the attacks and killing of the traditional ruler. He said the attack took place on Monday night by suspected Fulani herdsmen while the villagers were asleep. He added that three persons, who were injured during the attack, were receiving treatment at Vom Christian Hospital. The lawmaker condemned the attack, describing it as barbaric, and urged the security agencies to arrest the criminals. Also, the Chairman of Riyom LGA, Mr. Mafeng Gwalson who spoke on the sad incident, described it as ugly and barbaric and called on the security agencies to fish out the perpetrators. Mwadkwon, who was the acting Village Head of Wereng, was awaiting coronation before he was killed by the assailants. The immediate past chairman of Riyom LGA, Hon. Emmanuel Jugul also condemned the attack on the villagers. He said, three other seriously wounded people were immediately rushed to the Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) where they were receiving treatment, while the corpses of the six victims had been deposited at the same JUTH mortuary. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the Plateau State Police Command, Mr. Gabriel Ogaba, when contacted confirmed the attack, saying the Police Commissioner, Edward Egbuka had deployed more personnel to the village. He said investigation was ongoing to arrest the perpetrators. When the Senate resumed sitting last week, Senator Istifanus Gyang representing Plateau North senatorial district, had moved a motion as a matter of urgent importance, calling on the security operatives to provide adequate security cover for first class monarchs in Plateau State. He told the Inspector General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu to direct the Commissioner of Police in Plateau state to beef up security in the zone and the state. Over 10 first class and other traditional rulers in the state have been murdered by unknown assailants in recent months.