Emma Okonji The Nigeria Postal Service (NIPOST) has said it will continue to leverage technological innovation to achieve more efficiency in service delivery to its customers. The General Manager, Lagos Zone of NIPOST, Dr. Mike Umo, who stated this during the zone’s commemoration of the 2020 World Post Day, said NIPOST deployed technology in various areas of its business. According to him, “NIPOST has put in place International Postal System (IPS) and integrated Postal Management System (lPMS) in order to improve access to postal services within and outside the country. Since the emergence of information and communication technology, we have continued to explore how best to utilise our network by incorporating new technologies to drive the post to sustainable growth and improving our quality of service.” Umo, noted that while the emergence of electronic communications had caused a dramatic decrease in the number of letters sent, more parcels were being delivered daily, due to the double-digit growth of e-commerce across NIPOST services.
He explained that the importance of postal services in the socio-economic development cannot be over-emphasised in Nigeria, adding that it represents a unique asset and a true instrument for economic growth. While highlighting different areas the NIPOST services have been impacting the people and the economy, Umo said Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) in the country have been leveraging on NIPOST’s competitive rates to deliver goods and services to their customers all over the world. “Our e-commerce and haulage/logistics ventures are gradually taking centre stage in business networking.
“Most importantly, we are supporting sustainable development goals by providing rural banking to the unbanked communities. Our network is an advantage to create financial services such as Post Cash and other international fund transfers to these areas. “Our counters are fully automated with improved lCT facilities for customers to transact business easily,” Umo said.
He added that NlPOST had also improved on its handling and packaging by introducing the use of bubble wrap to protect and safeguard customers’ items from moisture and breakage. “We will implore you our esteemed customers to always demand your items to be bubble wrapped for its safety. We will like to also advise our numerous customers to desist from paying money to scammers who pick their tracking code and demands payment of money to their individual accounts. “NlPOST will never ask you to pay money into any individual account. Please ensure you transact all your postal businesses inside the post office and obtain receipt where necessary,” he said. The event also witnessed the presentation of prizes to Lagos State secondary school pupils that participated and emerged winners in the Universal Poster Union (UPU) Letter Writing Competition. According to Umo, the competition was aimed at improving the writing skills of the pupils. Four out of the 13 NIPOST Districts under the Lagos Zone were also presented prizes for meeting their revenue targets. These include Marina District, Surulere District, Mushin District, and Ikeja District.