Chuks Okocha in Abuja, Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti, Omon-Julius Onabu in Asaba and Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi; Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa; Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday hailed the Nigerian teachers at all levels for their sacrifices, commitment and dedication to the course of nation building and development of the educational sector, despite the daunting challenges. In a statement issued by the National Publicity Secretary of PDP, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, the main opposition party said: “Our party values the patriotism of our teachers in nurturing future generation of leaders, professionals, administrators, captains of industry among others, without which the wheel of the nation will grind to a halt”. The PDP therefore urged President Muhammadu Buhari as well as governments at all levels to take practical steps to ensure the welfare and better working conditions for teachers at all levels of service, including prompt payment of salaries and other remunerations. In his message, Fayemi described teachers as respectable stakeholders in the drive towards nation building, adding that government policies in education sector cannot succeed without the unflinching support and cooperation of teachers. Fayemi stated this at the 2020 World Teacher’s Day celebration, in Ado-Ekiti. He urged the teachers to brace up for the tasks of rebuilding the school system, which had been under lockdown in the last six months. Also speaking on the occasion of World Teachers’ Day 2020, Okowa commended teachers in Nigeria for their role in nation-building, noting that teachers constitute the bedrock of national development since other professions draw from the input of teachers. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika, the Delta State governor particularly thanked the teachers in the state “for their commitment to teaching and learning in all public and private schools in the state”. On his part, Governor AbdulRazaq yesterday joined other well-meaning Nigerians to hail the teachers for their contribution to the educational growth of the country. AbdulRazaq in a congratulatory statement issued in Ilorin, said their pre-eminence in human civilisation and development is not debatable. He said, “I salute our teachers on this day of the World Teachers’ Day. Our administration is convinced that the future of our society is closely tied to the quality and welfare of our teachers who are in charge of moulding our children and preparing them for the future. “This explains the importance the administration attaches to the education sector, including ongoing efforts to secure brighter prospects for the teachers”.