By Victor Ogunje The operatives of the Ekiti State Security Network Agency, Amotekun Corps, have apprehended a suspected kidnapper in Ifaki-Ekiti, Ido/ Osi local government area of the state. The Amotekun corps commander, Brig. Gen Joe Komolafe (rtd) told newsmen in Ado-Ekiti on Monday that the suspect who dressed in a military uniform was arrested during the routine patrol of the security outfit. Komolafe explained that the 23-year-old boy while coming out from the bush along the Ifaki road was accosted by men of Amotekun, ” where he confessed not to be a soldier, but a kidnapper.” Komolafe said, “We arrested him in Ifaki when we were on routine patrol where he dressed in military uniform and coming out from the bush. The first name the suspect gave us was Adebayo Damola and later he said he was Emmanuel Tunde. You can see the inconsistency in his words. He is never a military man but a suspected kidnapper. “Upon interrogation, he claimed to be from Kogi state, that he is a vulcanizer residing in Oye Ekiti. When asked about his mission in Ifaki, he said he was coming from Ado where he went to attend Man ‘O war interview. Our further investigation shows that he resides in Ifaki and when he took us to his room, we found military items. He also claimed that a military officer in Lagos state gave him the military uniform.” The Amotekun boss who revealed that the governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, will be launching the new security outfit on October 19, said they were ready to combat the wave of killings, kidnappings and other heinous crimes in the state. He solicited the support of residents by cooperating and providing useful information towards ending crime in the state, saying the Amotekun corps belongs to the people. He warned criminals to leave the state or face being arrested, saying Amotekun under him would be above board and be focused in securing the people across the 16 local government areas through traditional and cultural method. According to him, “Amotekun has come to stay in Ekiti and we are determined to secure our people from these criminals tormenting us here. We will deploy all that is needed just for the security of people, even if it’s traditional or cultural means.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Sunday Abutu, confirmed the arrest, saying the suspect is being detained at the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) at the State headquarters for interrogation.