In commemorating its 25th Anniversary, Affordable Cars, an automobile dealership in Lagos is offering its customers a “special anniversary package” on sales and services from October 1st till December 31st, 2020. The company which has been providing unique services to its numerous customers since its inception in 1995, is offering a 25 per cent discount on car maintenance service as well as free detailing, diagnostics, wheel balancing, and alignment. The purchase of new vehicles from its Lekki and Ikeja showrooms would also attract a one year free routine maintenance service, according to a statement. Affordable Cars has provided its customers with quality cars from various brands such as Toyota, Lexus, Land Rover, KIA, Mitsubishi, and Mercedes Benz with their customer base which includes corporate organizations, government parastatals, and private individuals. Speaking about the anniversary, the Managing Director, Mr. Biola Ayeni, thanked God for the milestone and stated that the company’s success was based on its core values – Excellence, professionalism, customer-friendly, integrity, and passion. They will be instrumental as the company continues to build first-class multi-brand auto dealership in Nigeria.
In addition, he attributed the achievements of the company so far to the staff members who have been part of the vision over the years. “The company’s 25th anniversary offers an opportunity for us to thank and celebrate our esteemed customers and partners for trusting us to deliver exceptional services to them over the last 25 years” he noted. He stressed that the organisation has consistently worked hard at ensuring customers’ satisfaction through the provision of premium quality vehicles at competitive prices. “At Affordable Cars, we don’t just sell but offer our customers pre-sales and after-sales services. Our 24/7 Autocare workshop is equipped with state of the art equipment to ensure vehicles are given the best of maintenance and repairs” he added. Customers are assured of excellent service delivery at Affordable cars as vehicles undergo a Pre-Delivery Inspection (PDI) by its quality Control Unit at the end of every repair/maintenance before delivery.