BCX Nigeria, a technology solution provider said it has concluded all arrangements to reposition the company for better service quality, as it plans to rebrand the company by next month. CEO of BCX Nigeria, Mr. Ayo Adegboye, who made the disclosure in Lagos, during an online chat with the media, said: “In about a month from now, BCX Nigeria, the brand that you have trusted all these years, will be switching over to its new brand identity. “We’re having a virtual launch to mark this historic event. Since our advent into the Nigerian business environment in 2008, BCX Nigeria has been at the forefront of developing innovative and disruptive technology solutions for all of West Africa.” According to him, in 2009, BCX deployed the “Campus-wide Wireless Network” for one of Nigeria’s foremost Universities, and this became the largest single enterprise Wi-Fi project in the country at the time. “Three years later, in 2012, we launched the BCX Cloud Computing Service, a major contribution to Nigeria’s ICT infrastructure. In 2013, we deployed the very first SIM Registration Solution (in-country) for one of the largest Telcos in Nigeria. “Five years later, in 2018, we deployed end-user computing and networking for the world’s largest brewery, and just last year, we signed a contract to deploy the largest Vocalcom deal in Africa for over 2,500 agents. “In so many ways, our customers have been part of the BCX journey for 12 years and as we rebrand to take on new challenges, innovate new solutions and deliver a greater future, we want customers to be part of this next stage in our evolution,” Adegboye said. Giving reasons for rebranding, he said following the acquisition of BCX Group by Telkom in 2015, the business decided to divest all its investments outside Southern Africa and earlier on in 2020, BCX Nigeria exchanged ownership in a management buyout led by the company’s incumbent Managing Director, Ayo Adegboye and IP & Cloud Ltd. The new entity though now fully Nigerian owned will continue to maintain a strategic relationship with BCX SA and also retain global best practices imbibed from them, Adegboye said, adding that financially, BCX Nigeria has run autonomously for the last five years and with this acquisition, is now better positioned to expand to other areas in the country besides its head office in Lagos and regional offices in Port Harcourt and Abuja especially in sectors where local content had erstwhile been a barrier. “We are currently concluding our regional expansion to other parts of sub-Saharan Africa. One of our differentiators in the industry has been our technical strength and our clients are assured of seamless continuity in this regard since all accreditations and certifications were obtained locally and therefore remain valid. In the coming days, we will share more details about the virtual launch event and how Nigerians can join this new journey,” Adegboye added.