By Onuminya Innocent Following a meeting held with relevant stakeholders in Sokoto State and further intensive deliberations, the state Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, yesterday directed that the 2020/2021 academic session for basic and secondary schools should reopen on October 11. This is to be followed by the resumption of Primary 6 pupils and students on the last lap of Junior Secondary School (JSS III) two weeks later, while higher education students in final year, those returning and new students are to resume, as proposed by the state Commissioner for Higher Education, and approved by the governor on October 12, 19 and 26 respectively. These were contained in a document made available to journalists by the state Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Dr. Muhammad Bello Abubakar Guiwa. According to the state government, it took cognizance of the COVID-19 ‘protocols and guidelines as well as the best option to be adopted by the state regarding the schools reopening.’ Consequently, the document stated that “first and second term continuous assessment are to be used in promoting students to the next class for this session (2019/2020),” just as the BECE should be conducted for the returning JSS III students as a “precondition for their transition to Senior Secondary (SS I).” Equally, the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) will “conduct placement exercise into JSS I and Primary one.” The state government cautioned all schools in the state to compulsorily “adhere strictly to COVID-19 guidelines and protocols which include the provision of hand sanitizers, hand washing machines, thermometers and isolation rooms among others.” It also directed that “schools with overcrowded students are to adopt shift system with a view to minimising physical contact.” Meanwhile, the state government has directed “that all private institutions operating in the state must strictly adhere to the state academic calendar issued by the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education.”