By Adedayo Akinwale The Platinum Mortgage Bank Limited (PMBL) has appointed former Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Abubakar, as its new board chairman. The Media Adviser of the bank, Mr. Festus Adebayo, in a recent statement, explained that Abubakar, by this appointment would be saddled with the responsibility of providing leadership to the board, taking responsibility for the board’s composition and development, ensuring proper information for the board, planning and conducting board meetings effectively, getting all directors involved in the board’s work. The former police boss is also saddled with the responsibility of ensuring that the board focuses on its key tasks, engaging the board in assessing and improving its performance, overseeing the induction and development of directors and supporting the Chief Executive/Managing Director. The bank which stated that its focus was to improve the welfare of Nigerians through the provision of efficient stress-free and quality house delivery services at affordable cost, was incorporated in 1992 with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) to provide savings, loans and homes ownership services, and licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) under the CBN Decree 24 of 1991 and FMBN Decree No.53 of 1989 respectively to provide Mortgage Banking Services in Nigeria. The statement described Abubakar as a versatile and dynamic leader with a great sense of responsibility and wide range of diverse exposures, capabilities and competences spanning from his forte as an administrator, criminologist, intelligent officer, prosecutor, investigator, an entrepreneur and savvy police officer who has held several management positions in the Nigeria Police Force and financial institutions for years. He was the pioneer chairman of the NPF pension Board, the position he held between 2014 and 2018. Born on May 5, 1960, Abubakar began his early education at Gusau Township Primary School, Zamfara State. Thereafter, he proceeded to Government Secondary School, Maru. He went further to bag Diploma in Criminal Justice Administration from the University of Lagos and Advance Diploma in Public Administration from Sokoto State Polytechnic, respectively. Abubakar obtained Senior Executive No. 27 from National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru in Jos and Diploma in Disaster Management and Control from Israel. He also acquired Advance Diploma in Law Enforcement Administration from the University of Lagos and MBA in Marketing and Business Strategy from Hult International Business School in Boston.