FG to power 5m homes with mini-grid technology By Emmanuel Addeh Despite a huge deficit in power supply, the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) said yesterday that generation peaked at an all-time generation high of 5,459.50MW. This is coming as the Minister of Power, Mr. Sale Mamman , yesterday reiterated the plan of the federal government to invest in the deployment of mini-grid systems that will provide power for five million Nigerian homes by 2021. TCN stated that the power was again, “efficiently” transmitted through the nation’s transmission grid at a frequency of 50.26Hz by 8.15pm on the 28th of October, 2020. “This milestone in generation is higher than any peak ever recorded in the nation’s power industry as at date. The new peak surpasses the 5,420.30MW achieved on 18th August, 2020 by 39.20MW,” the TCN said. A statement by the General Manager, Public Affairs of the TCN, Mrs. Ndidi Mbah, in Abuja, quoted the Acting Managing Director of the organisation, Mr. Sule Abdulaziz, as commending all the players in the power sector value chain for the ‘feat’. Abdulaziz attributed the gradual but steady improvement in the quantum of power delivery to collaboration by the sector players as well as the ‘unbridled effort’ by the federal government, through the ministry of power, in setting the right environment for seamless operations. “Abdulaziz expressed optimism that stakeholders in the sector would continue to work together towards ensuring the continued increase in the quantum of power available to consumers nationwide. “TCN, he noted, is committed to working with the generation and distribution companies to ensure sustained improvement in the sector for the benefit of the nation,” the statement concluded. Meanwhile, the Minister of Power, Mamman , yesterday reiterated the plan of the federal government to invest in the deployment of mini-grid systems that will provide power for five million Nigerian homes by 2021. In a release on his Twitter handle, the minister explained that it is virtually impossible for the national grid to cover every geographical point within Nigeria, adding that the plan is to provide remote communities with clean and affordable energy. “It is virtually impossible to have the national grid covering every geographical point within Nigeria, that is why the government is investing heavily in the deployment of mini-grid systems, which can easily get to the most remote communities and provide clean, affordable energy. “In 2021, part of our priorities at the ministry and two of its implementing agencies will be on providing these mini-grid systems for communities and stand-alone home solar systems. We have a target of 5 million homes. Clean, affordable, and accessible energy for all,” he tweeted. Mamman noted that on Wednesday during his budget defence before the national assembly, he also told the lawmakers that Nigeria’s installed grid power generation capacity had increased from 8,000MW to 13,000MW. He also pointed out that the distribution system now has the capacity to evacuate 5,500MW of power, which is a significant improvement from 4,500MW in 2015 when President Muhammadu Buhari took over the reins of government. “Under the able leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari, the country’s grid power capacity has increased significantly from the time this administration took over in 2015 to date. “During the period between 2015 to date, the sector has recorded successes and has faced challenges. In order to deliver this administration’s promise of providing stable and affordable power to Nigerians, a way forward was defined and supported by Mr. President’s political will,” he said.