by Bennett Oghifo Porsche Middle East and Africa FZE (PME), a wholly owned subsidiary of Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG, Stuttgart, has restructured its Sales Team to further extend its importer support measures in preparation for the next phases of development within the region. The recent changes include the appointment of two new team members to allow a further enhanced focus on individual needs and requirements from business partners in 21 countries. The brand’s subsidiary with base in Dubai Silicon Oasis supports 22 Porsche importers, 61 facilities across the Middle East, Africa and India in topics related to Sales, After Sales, Marketing, Network Development, PR and Porsche Financial Services. Commenting on the new structure and the latest appointments, Dr Manfred Braeunl, Chief Executive Officer of Porsche Middle East and Africa FZE, said: “The recent restructuring in the Sales Team forms an integral part of our commitment to the global Porsche strategy, as we move forward to welcoming a new era of electrification, digitalisation and sustainable growth. It confirms our organization’s long-held commitment to our importers and our continuous measures to enhance the brand’s presence and customer experience.” Steffen Fleck, who has been with the organization since 2006, recently moved to the role of Sales Director, after becoming Network Development Director in 2013. In his new function, he oversees the core areas of sales planning and regional management for all markets. Additionally, he is responsible for the development of new business concepts focusing on areas such as pre-owned sales, corporate sales as well as customer individualization programmes. As the first ever female joining the regional Sales Team, Aileen Fahr is a recent appointment to PME as Head of Region Africa. With her 16 years of automotive retail experience, she oversees operations in all markets of her region together with a Regional Manager. Heading the region Middle East and Levant is Mohamed S. Hassan who has been with the organisation since 2011, looking after regional After Sales and Sales operations. Supported by a team member, his region comprises the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, Lebanon, besides others. Joining PME to head up India and Pakistan is Vikrant Singh who brings 23 years of experience in the automotive field having specialised in exclusive European brands. In his latest positions, Singh was responsible for retail development projects as well as retail performance programmes. Born and raised in Delhi (India), he has a profound understanding of the market. With a new product offensive, including the introduction of Porsche’s first fully electric sports car, the Taycan, and a commitment to further enhancing the brand’s unrivalled customer service, the restructure augments PME’s regional strategy for long-term sustainable growth. Dr. Manfred Braeunl added: “Collectively, the changes in the Sales Team ensure that each new challenge we face will be a positive step towards an even stronger future. With the confidence I have in this new team that demonstrates a combined, proven track record of not only matching but enhancing exceptional standards of professionalism, we are entering this new era with great confidence.”