ActionAid Nigeria has applauded the level of resilience demonstrated by the Nigerian youths within the past few weeks through peaceful protests to raise their voices against injustice as well as demanding good governance. The group said the resolve of the youths to remain peaceful in making their demands despite the attacks, violence, killings, hijack of the peaceful protests by hoodlums, and the provocative silence of the federal government has not gone unnoticed. The organisation in a statement signed by the Country Director, ActionAid Nigeria, Ene Obi, “On October 22, ActionAid Nigeria, like many other Nigerians, watched President Muhammadu Buhari’s long-awaited speech, notably without mentioning the shooting at the Lekki-Ikoyi tollgate in Lagos, which led to the injury of scores of protestors and deaths as reported by in the Lagos State. “As a non-governmental organisation working to end poverty and all forms of injustice in Nigeria, we are deeply saddened, and therefore, call on the president to: ‘Recognise that the rights of youths have been trampled upon with the use of maximum force and military actions. The incident that transpired at Lekki must be investigated and those who ordered the shooting, as well as the officers who fired at peaceful protestors must be brought to book openly for Nigerians to see (#BlackTuesday, October 20, 2020). “Commit to justice for all the victims injured and families of those who lost their lives as a result of the #EndSARS campaign across the country. “Also, give clear-cut responses to all demands of the protestors, and provide definite timelines for government’s response to youths’ demands. “Investigate those who smuggled hoodlums to disrupt the peaceful protests, attack their fellow citizens and destroy properties. (Government at all levels must allow youths to stand united for the country and desist from using young Nigerians for political gain).” ActionAid Nigeria also called on all state governors to sue for peace by recognising all the lapses in the presidential speech for prompt enforcement. “As a development partner in the forefront of achieving social justice in Nigeria, we renew our commitment to support young Nigerians to take their space and ensure good governance in Nigeria. We urge the youths to organise peacefully and sustain the momentum of their quest for participatory, accountable, transparent, responsive, effective and inclusive governance that follows the rule of law,” the group stated.