By Peter Uzoho and Oluchi Chibuzor The Lagos State Government has stated that it was working with the electricity distribution companies in the state- Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) and Ikeja Electric (IE), to ensure all households were metered before the end of the current administration. The Lagos State Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources, Mr. Olalere Odusote, disclosed this yesterday during the official launch of the federal government’s National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP) by the Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) in Lagos State. Four distribution companies namely: EKEDC, Ikeja Electric, Kano and Kaduna Distribution Companies flagged off the first phase of the mass metering programme same yesterday in their various franchise areas. The programme is a new aggressive measure initiated by the federal government to bridge the wide metering gap in the country by deploying six million meters across the networks with no charge yet from customers. While EKEDC will be rolling out its allocated 100,000 prepaid meters to its customers, Ikeja Electric on its part, will be deploying to its customers 106,701 meters allocated to it, both within the next two months. According to Odusote, “Our intention is to mitigate the complaints of Lagos residents, through the elimination of estimated billing in the country.” He added: “The Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has approved the project, and we are currently executing it. LASG has also engaged with a local manufacturer to ensure the metering exercise is completed in a timely manner. “Our interest is to ensure that everyone using electricity in the state pays for it. “We are working out necessary measures to ensure that every household in Lagos are metered before the end of this administration.” “To that end, we are partnering with the EKEDC to work out the elimination modalities. The meter will be acquired by Lagos State, and households will pay in instalment overtime for it.” In his remarks, the Managing Director of EKEDC, Mr. Adeoye Fadeyibi, stated that the mass metering programme was a welcome development and a boost to the deepening of the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI). “The programme couldn’t have come at a better time than now, given the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on businesses and household income. We are happy for the initiative and acknowledge the government’s renewed desire to improve the power supply and bridge the metering gap. “Electricity, as we all know, is an important essential need of any society and we all have acknowledged the menace of the estimated billing both on the customers and even we as a business”.