By Bennett Oghifo Landmark Africa, Nigeria’s foremost destination for business, leisure and lifestyle facilities, has said its gates are fully open to welcome fun loving and business-minded visitors and that its facilities have been upgraded. The Chief Executive Officer of the company, Paul Onwuanibe, said this during a recent media tour of the facilities. “We took advantage of the lockdown period to carry out facility upgrades for existing infrastructure as we prepared to welcome visitors immediately regulations allowed. We also completed new projects that expanded the wide range of leisure and lifestyle offerings within Landmark. So, as you come into Landmark now, you will find more contactless infrastructure across the ecosystem to minimise contact with surfaces. We have fully deployed our online booking and ticketing system at Landmark Beach and Landmark Hotels to ensure that physical interactions, especially cash transactions, are drastically reduced. Our integrated internal transport system is now available to convey visitors and tenants from the Landmark Towers to the Landmark Beach and even within the Retail Boulevard. We have built a city within a city, and we are not stopping anytime soon.” He said the hospitality and tourism industry was severely affected by the pandemic with a historic loss of over $270B in the United States, according to Oxford Economics. With over 33,000 businesses providing support services to the industry closing down across Europe, it has been a struggle for many organisations to keep operations ongoing. In Nigeria, the transportation, hospitality, real estate and construction sectors accounted for the highest negative growth in Q2 2020 according to the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics. For Landmark Africa, the lock down period provided an opportunity to consolidate its position as an industry leader in the real estate industry as it expanded its hospitality offerings to the education sector. The organisation revealed that it had recently signed a deal to provide executive hostel accommodation and teaching facilities for a post graduate program to groom leaders in technology and business. Resident scholars for the year-long program will be drawn from across the African continent. With new projects, accelerated upgrades in line with safety regulations as well as continuous engagement with the government and other stakeholders, Landmark has showed remarkable corporate leadership in a country with 27.1% unemployment rate. The Landmark Ecosystem features an exciting mix of business, leisure and lifestyle facilities. The sprawling Landmark Event Centre with conferencing and exhibitions facilities has played host to some of the most celebrated and well attended parties in Lagos State over the last three years. With a spacious car park strategically located between the Event Centre and Landmark Towers, corporate organisations and fun loving visitors have no worries about security of their expensive cars in the densely populated Victoria Island. The Landmark Towers is a mixed use commercial facility with 10 floors and a leisure centre. The building includes a high–ceiling retail floor with terraces, world-class restaurant, 6 floors of grade A offices and the 22-room boutique Landmark Hotel. The Landmark Retail Boulevard provides 8,000sqm of prime retail space and is built around the Landmark Event Centre, the only Hard Rock Café in West Africa, Spur, Shiro Japanese Restaurants, and KFC. Visitors get a feel of the sea breeze and nature’s comforting touch on the Landmark Beach. With provision for corporate and individual membership plans, fun loving Lagosians and tourists have a ready-made hangout spot with exotic specialty cuisine, footwear from Brazil, traditional African art stores and a bed of the cleanest sea sand on the coastal shore of Lagos. “We are eager to welcome our visitors back to Landmark. Before the lockdown, we recorded as many as 70,000 visitors per week and this made us the prime location for events, exhibitions, trade fairs and retail commerce,” said Seun Olatubi, Chief Strategy Officer for Landmark Africa. “To further provide more experiences for people to enjoy, we have expanded our leisure and hospitality offerings around the Beach and our waterfront property. There are two new facilities that offer exotic and intercontinental cuisine, interactive advertising screens for brands that want to connect with the visitors at Landmark, a live-in technology academy, solar light powered board walks, conspicuous safety notices, and of course free wifi!” In line with the organisation’s readiness to welcome the public, it organised the #StepOutBurnIt fitness event over the weekend to help Lagosians burn excess weight gained during the lockdown and also keep fit. The event attracted fitness enthusiasts, aerobics, dance and Zumba instructors as well as corporate sponsors like Amstel Malta and Aquafina. As Lagos State and Nigeria as a whole continues to review and relax regulations for movement and industries, the organisation believes that it is ready to provide experiences that will linger for years to come. Caption: L-R: Business Development Consultant, UT Homes, Mr. Olawepo Ogunniyi; Lead Pastor, Lighthouse Christian Outreach Centre, Pastor Ayo Daniels; Managing Director/CEO, UT Homes, Mr. Ade Adebajo; Greenbrook Properties Limited, Mr. Gbenga Onipede; and MD/CEO, Greenbrook Properties Limited, Mr. Adebayo Ajayi, at the ground-breaking ceremony of UT Homes, at Opebi, Lagos… recently