By Chinedu Eze A major Nigerian carrier, Air Peace, has announced that it would be commencing regular commercial flight operations from its Lagos hub into the city of Johannesburg, South Africa in line with its vision to provide seamless connectivity across cities. The airline disclosed that it has made huge progress in meeting the stipulated requirements of the aviation authorities in both South Africa and Nigeria to enable it launch flight operations into the country before end of 2020. The Air Peace’s Spokesman, Mr. Stanley Olisa, said that South Africa is one of the destinations which the federal government approved for Air Peace, adding that the Lagos-Johannesburg-Lagos would be operated thrice a week. Olisa also said that South Africa has always been on the radar of Air Peace as the airline is constantly reviewing its route network and looking at strategic ways of expanding it to provide immense value to Nigerians first and other Africans. He added that this focused route planning and expansion is driven by the airline’s ‘no-city-left-behind’ initiative, an ambition to interconnect various cities through the provision of safe, comfortable, and cost-effective flights. Reiterating the commitment of the airline to continuously add more connections to its route network, Olisa noted that apart from South Africa, Air Peace has also been designated to operate commercial flights into Mumbai, London, Guangzhou-China, Houston, with other destinations still in the works. “We shall continue to strategically increase existing connections to give our customers more network options while also creating more employment opportunities for Nigerians.” he said. Air Peace, in a historic feat, kicked off its international flight operations with United Arab Emirates in July 2019 and during the COVID-19 lockdown operated several evacuation flights to and from China, United Kingdom, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, Israel, India and Turkey as well as the free airlift of 503 Nigerians from South Africa amidst the xenophobic onslaught last year.