By Sunday Ehigiator As the #EndSARS protest enters Day Nine on Friday, the spirit of solidarity amongst protesters appears to be growing even across religious boundaries, as Muslims amongst them observed their regular Friday prayer openly at the Lekki Toll Gate and on Lagos State Assembly road, both of which had been grounded by protesters since the the protests began last week. THISDAY reports that protesters also observed Friday prayers on some Abuja roads. At the Juma’at Prayer held on the Governor’s road in Alausa, some Christian protesters provided cover for the Muslims. During the prayer session, other activities relating to the protest were suspended. According to the protest schedule released on Thursday, Christians were also expected to worship at their protest grounds on Sunday. The schedule showed that the Sunday Service of DayStar’s Pastor Sam Adeyemi would be streamed live at Lekki toll gate. In another development on Friday, protesters at the Lagos State House of Assembly rejected food and soft drinks sent by the Chairman of the National Union of the Road Transport Workers in the state, Musiliu Akinsanya aka MC Oluomo. The rejection was in reaction to the attack unleashed on the protesters by thugs at Ikeja, the state capital, on Thursday. MC Oluomo was accused of being behind the violent attack but his spokesman, Jimoh Buhari, denied the allegation. In an apparent attempt to endear himself to the protesters, the NURTW boss sent food as well as soft drinks and water branded with his name to the youth. The refreshments were conveyed in a white van to Alausa Friday afternoon. However, some protesters, oblivious of the sender, collected the items and drank the soft drinks and water before one of them raised the alarm that the packs were branded ‘Donated by MC Oluomo.’ This angered the protesters who pelted the van with empty plastic bottles, alleging that the NURTW boss had sent them “poison.” The driver of the van zoomed off immediately. Also in another development around the state, protesters stormed the Magboro area of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway to continue their demonstration against the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad, a unit of the Nigeria Police Force. The protesters were seen carrying placards with different inscriptions as they blocked the expressway, causing gridlock, and making life unbearable for traveling road users. For over a week, youths across the state who joined their counterparts from different parts of the country, have been demanding a total overhaul of the Nigeria Police Force and an end to extrajudicial killings by men of the defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad. The protests have intensified despite the disbandment of the unit and the announcement of the Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) to replace it. The protests, which have been held in major cities across the country, caused heavy traffic and affected economic activities.           