Ferdinand Ekechukwu Much talked about movie, The Eve, is the latest on the exclusive list of Nigerian flicks on Netflix as it premiered on the global streaming platform on Monday, October 12th. The 2018 romantic comedy which chronicles the days leading up to a supposed “happy couple’s” wedding features a stellar cast and is directed by rapper turned director – Tosin Igho. Produced by Hauwa Allahbura’s Cut24 Productions, The Eve was written by the trio of Tunde Babalola, Tosin Igho, and Martin Adieze. It centers on a young man, Funso (Adefarasin), and his bride-to-be, Yewande (Naya) set to marry in a few days. Before the D-day, three childhood friends of the groom decide to treat him to a blissful bachelor’s Eve on a beautiful island. Sadly, things go south during the getaway with the couple needing to reassess their stance amidst the actions of other parties. Apart from its exciting plot, The Eve which screened in cinemas in 2018 also has beautiful music synchronized with beautiful pictures and great cinematography. Commenting on the Netflix release, Allahbura expressed pride for the feat and appreciated the movie’s cast and crew for their yeoman’s effort. She also enjoined people to watch out for the flick. “There is no mother that is not proud of her first child. We could not have achieved this level of success without the director, cast, and crew of The Eve. This was my production debut. After The Eve, I and my company, Cut24 Productions, have grown immensely. As we all prepare for #TheEveXNetflix, please visit your Netflix app and set a reminder for October 12! The Eve is coming on Netflix! Get ready!” Allahbura gushed. “The Eve” comes hot on the heels of other successful productions from Cut24 including Code Will, the critically acclaimed Gidi Blues and 4th Estate. The movie explores various themes and genres through its runtime which is just less than 2 hours and the Netflix audience is set to be treated to various musical numbers as the movie has been compared to Nollywood’s response to modern Disney classics. The cast which features some of Nollywood’s leading women includes Beverly Naya, Meg Otanwa, Ronke Oshodi and Hauwa Allahbura. Beverly Naya casts her streak of stellar performances to her already impressive catalogue which includes playing the lead actress in Lancelot Imasuen’s “Living in Exile” which brought her to limelight and acted alongside star actor Desmond Elliot in the movie produced by her mother. Ronke Oshodi, needs very little introduction, after forging an impressive track record with Yoruba movies, she makes an effortless transition in her role as the feisty aunt of Yewande. Beverly Naya, who plays the passive aggressive “Yewande” proved her worth as a leading actress in Nollywood.