IBM, in its recent report has restated its commitment to capture and transform atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) in order to further mitigate climate change. The report unveiled IBM’s annual ‘5 in 5’ predictions about five significant changes driven by innovation in science and technology that will take place in the next five years. This year’s ‘5 in 5’ predictions focused on five core areas of research that the company will tackle to enable a more sustainable future, coinciding with the first ever virtual UN General Assembly. According to the report, “from a global pandemic to global warming, 2020 has illuminated the essential role of science, to combat some of the greatest challenges of our time. The need to rethink how the world creates, consumes and disposes of materials has never been clearer, from storing energy more efficiently, to removing CO2 from the atmosphere to growing food more sustainably. As part of the company’s renewed focus on the urgency of science, IBM is committed to dedicating its technology, talent, and resources towards advancing research and the discovery of new materials. It will do this by advancing technologies including Artificial Intelligence (AI), quantum, high performance computing and hybrid cloud to turbocharge science and address the discovery process in a fundamentally new way, including these five core areas in the next five years.” The report further said: “In the next five years, we will be able to capture CO2 from the air and transform it from the scourge of the environment into something useful. The goal is to make CO2 capture and reuse efficient enough to scale globally so we can significantly reduce the level of the harmful CO2 in the atmosphere and, ultimately, slow climate change.” Giving details on how it intends to reduce carbon emissions from the atmosphere, the report said in the next five years, IBM would replicate nature’s ability to convert nitrogen in the soil into nitrate-rich fertilizer, feeding the growing world while reducing the environmental impact of fertilizers. We’ll come up with an innovative solution to enable nitrogen fixation at a sustainable scale and help feed the world’s rapidly growing population. “In the next five years, we will discover new materials for safer and more environmentally-preferable batteries capable of supporting a renewable-based energy grid and more sustainable transportation. Many renewable energy sources are intermittent and require storage. The use of AI and quantum computing will result in batteries built with safer and more efficient materials for improved performance,” the report further said, adding, “In the next five years, we will advance materials manufacturing, enabling semiconductor manufacturers to improve the sustainability of their coveted products. Scientists will embrace a new approach to materials design that enables the tech industry to more quickly produce sustainable materials for the production of semiconductors and electronic devices.”