A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Chief Chris Uche has asked Nigerians to learn from the electoral system of Rotary International (RI). He said the smooth succession plan, which RI has bequeathed to the world is unique. He also urged Nigerians to imbibe the virtues of giving and sharing to bridge the gaps between the rich and the poor. Uche, who gave this advice in an address at the Investiture of the 9th President of the Rotary Club of Abuja Maitama, Rotarian Dinah Achele Akuh, said once a nation gets its electoral system right, its political system will be crisis free. “Nigerians need to learn from the electoral system of Rotary International which is rancour-free without election petitions or legal battles in court. “ This is the type of succession plan we need to enhance our political development and consolidate our democracy. “ Another thing I have learned from Rotary is about charity and the love for the less privileged. Nigerians need to cultivate the the virtues of giving and sharing to bridge the gaps between the rich and the poor.” On his part, the District Governor-Elect for Rotary International District 9125, Rotn. Ayo Oyedokun asked the privileged in the society to assist Rotary in its service to humanity. He said Rotary International has succeeded in spearheading End-Polio Campaign. He said: “Rotary International is a unique organization which accounts for funds donated to it. We are accountable and transparent. “ We will not relent in serving humanity. I implore more Nigerians to join Rotary to lend more hands in assisting the poor and the needy.” In her address, the Immediate Past President of the club, Rotn. Eucheria Ifeoma Ekweozoh, said: “We started the Rotary year with 42 members, 33 females and 9 males, but now the club has a total of 54 members in Rotary portal. “However, we are waiting for the total ease of the Covid-19 pandemic lock down to admit quite a number of prospects in line with the Rotary International guideline on membership admission. “ We equally made a remarkable contributionf into Rotary foundation, 9 Paul Haris fellows and 1 major Donor, which brings our giving to $8,640 dollars.” The new President of the club, Rotn. Dinah Achele Akuh, said: “The theme for this Rotary year “Rotary Opens Doors for opportunities” is very apt coming at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has changed our world, opening doors of brand new opportunities all around us. “Be assured that we will take advantage of the open doors of opportunities to enjoy more robust fellowships and better serve our communities. “ I, as the President of this great club for the year 2020-2021, with your co-operation, will by the grace of God connect with the District and Rotary International. “I hope to enrich our fellowship time, encourage more friendliness among members as one family, grow and ensure membership retention, increase our Rotary Foundation giving and execute bigger, bolder and more impactful projects in all the seven Areas of Focus including our new area of focus, Supporting the Environment.”