By Chiemelie Ezeobi The protest in Surulere turned bloody and reportedly claimed five lives – one policeman and four civilians. THISDAY gathered that the police at Area C while trying to repel the protesters, allegedly shot at the crowd and felled a passerby. The action by the police was said to have angered the protesters and some hoodlums, who hijacked the protests and took laws into their hands. They reportedly broke into the station and shot three policemen with a reprisal on the part of the police claiming three more civilian lives. Confirming the crisis, the state Police Public Relations Officer, SP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, however debunked claims the police killed anyone. He also said of the three policemen shot, one was already dead while two others were critically injured and battling for their lives. Calling for calm, the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu, reiterated that the protest had been hijacked by some unscrupulous elements, who are fully armed. He said: “Some armed protesters laid siege to the Anti Kidnapping Unit Office of the command, broke into the cell and liberated two of the kidnap suspects, before they were tactically and professionally repelled. “In the process, Inspr Ekei Joshua with AP No 175493, Inspr Peter Agabi with AP No 251138 and Insp Erinfolami Ayodeji with AP No 229241(now late) attached to the Anti Kidnapping Unit of Lagos State Command, located at Iyun Road, Surulere were shot and critically injured; they have been rushed to the Intensive Care Unit of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital. “In addition, the protesters fired and killed one Ikechukwu Ilohamauzo, 55 years, a driver of one Toyota Sienna Bus, with Registration Number LSD 296 FX, who got stuck in the traffic caused by the blockage of the road by the violent protesters, in Surulere today. “It is petinent to state that the attacked police inspectors and Mr Ikechukwu Ilohamauzu were hit and injured by pellets reasonably fired from pump actions/locally-made guns. The corpses of the deceased have been deposited in a mortuary for autopsy. “ He said four suspects were arrested in connection with the incident and had been transferred to the Homicide Section of the SCID, Yaba, Lagos to carry out thorough investigation into the incidence for further police actions.