Ugo Aliogo Determined to promote trade and help businesses in the beverage sector to grow by connecting them to the right prospects; Zenith Exhibitions will hold the Chocolate, Coffee, and Tea (CCT) West Africa Exhibition and Conference from October 6-7, 2021, at Landmark Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos, the event will include a conference and Business-to-Business Meetings (B2B). The event will focus on the beverage sector which occupies a very large part of the food manufacturing industry in Nigeria, where the chocolate, coffee, and tea markets are one of the biggest in Africa. A statement made available to THISDAY by the organisers said the CCT West Africa is the only exclusive trade show in Nigeria that is totally devoted to the professional sales, import, export, processing, packaging, and distribution of chocolate, coffee, tea, and cocoa beverages across the entire food and beverage spectrum. In his remarks, the Project Manager, Uche Agu, said Zenith Exhibitions is aimed at contributing to the country’s quest to diversify from oil dependency by boosting businesses, export, and tourism, as the event would welcome attendees from other countries of the world. Agu further explained that the organisation desires to make the latest technologies, brands, equipment, products, and services in the industry known to manufacturers, buyers, distributors, suppliers and consumers. Commenting on the impact the event is expected to have, Agu said the CCT expo would create a conducive atmosphere for businesses and individuals in the industry to meet and connect, adding that it serves as a meeting point in bridging the demand and supply gap. “The event’s ultimate aim is to promote trade and give a platform for the latest products and technology to be showcased, while giving the power of choice to consumers by making various brands available to them and also bringing together all stakeholders in the industry to contribute to the sustainability of the entire chain,” Agu said. Her assessment of the beverage industry highlights a significant rise in the purchasing rate for coffee in the past 10 years, and the chocolate confectionery, tea, and other hot and cold beverages witnessing a return to strong growth in both retail volume and current value terms. This budding sector needs support, focus, and attention to meet up with the improvement of the economy and the growing consumer population with their desire for a quality range of products and also availability for all, she asserts. Speaking more broadly about exhibitions in Nigeria, she hinted that the exhibition space in Nigeria is still a growing one. There are not enough exhibitions to cover the huge number of sectors, according to her. Continuing, Agu said: “There are only a handful of quality exhibitions that meet the growing needs of various trades across the different sectors. Because of the important role exhibitions play in building economies and in helping businesses to thrive, the government (at all levels) need to support the industry more as we are dedicated to helping businesses grow and when businesses grow, the economy grows.”