The Managing Director of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), Dr. Ernest Mupwaya, has said the 2020 customer service week is a time to give back and an opportunity to appreciate its customers for their loyalty to the company. Mupwaya, in a letter to staff said it was time to show the company’s customers how much it values them. “This is an auspicious period to demonstrate our appreciation to our esteemed customers and recognise the importance of customer service excellence within the organisation,” he said. Speaking further, the managing director said the 2020 customer service week, which has as its theme – Dream Team highlights the significance of teamwork and collaboration in providing outstanding service to all customers demonstrated during the Covid-19 – 19 lockdown period. According to him, during this period, AEDC embraced new work arrangements, which rather than diminish the service levels to its customers rather enhanced it as the company continued to strive for excellence while adapting to the change that was necessary following the outbreak of the pandemic. Some of the activities listed for the customer service week include a visitation to one of the orphanage homes in Abuja where the company would donate food items. A statement by the General Manager, Corporate Communications, Mr. Oyebode Fadipe,
stressed that the company was also expected to visit the Human Rights Radio station where the popular family radio reality programme – Brekete is aired. The company recalled that in order to continue to ensure customer satisfaction, AEDC equipped its customer service centre with state-of-the-art facilities, which rests on a robust integrated commercial management system.
It said that this enabled customers to register their complaints anywhere they are at any point in time. “The customer-centric disposition of AEDC has been widely acknowledged by stakeholders including some customer advocacy groups such as the Network for Electricity Consumers Association of Nigeria (NECAN) and Nigeria Consumer Protection Network (NCPN)” it said.