Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja Gunmen have struck again in Kuje, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), when they abducted a former Vice- Chairman of Kuje Area Council, Mohammed Baba; two members of the council’s legislative arm and several support staff of the council, including the Transport Officer, Special Assistant, Media, Head of Department (HoD) and Food Services. The abduction took place last Saturday night, and was confirmed yesterday by the FCT Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Yusuf Mariam, confirmed the incident yesterday. She said the police authorities have initiated the efforts to rescue the abducted persons. Baba and others were commuting on a bus to Kuje when they ran into an ambush set up by the gunmen, who abducted all the occupants before vanishing through the bush path. It was gathered that the abducted persons were returning to Kuje after going to congratulate the new Education Secretary of the council, Mr. Yunusa Zakari, when the incident occurred. The Chairman of Pegi Community Development Association (PECDA), Taiwo Aderibigbe, also confirmed the incident last night, saying the identities of the other victims abducted with Baba could not be ascertained. Meanwhile, the FCT Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani, has condemned in strong terms the abductions of the former vice chairman of Kuje Area Council alongside some members of the council’s legislative arm by gunmen suspected to be kidnappers. Tijjani, who described the incident as unfortunate and heinous, however, regretted that the cases of abductions have become some rampant especially in Kuje Area Council of the Territory. While assuring the area that the FCT Administration would take drastic measures to address the situation, she also appealed to the residents to remain calm as efforts are in place to recover all the kidnapped victims. “It is regrettable and unfortunate that we are still having cases of abductions and kidnappings of innocent citizens in the Federal Capital Territory. It is regrettable because this is the seat of government, and we must do everything possible to put to an end to this senseless killings and abductions of residents in the territory. “However, I want to appeal to residents especially those in the area councils to remain calm as the FCT Administration under the leadership of Malam Muhammad Bello is working assiduously to protect lives and property of the residents. I want to assure you that the security agencies are on top of the situation,” the minister stated.