X3M Ideas Limited has won bronze at the Lisbon Advertising Festival for its International Women’s Day press campaign, ‘Make History Equal for Women.’ According to the organisers, X3M Ideas was the only African agency to win an award at the festival this year and was one of the 17 bronze winners in the international competition. The agency also scored three finalist entries which included Mum Hotline – its breathtaking integrated campaign for Mentally Aware Nigeria Initiative (MANI) and Forgiven – X3M’s widely acclaimed social media campaign for Easter, all selected by an executive jury consisting of high profile, global creative leaders such as David Kolbusz, the Chief Creative Officer of Droga5. The bronze winning work ‘Make History Equal for Women,’ was previously selected as one of the 62 ads from across the globe for the 2020 Great Ads for Good Exhibition; and has been celebrated lots of times in the advertising community. Speaking on the award, Founder and CEO, X3M Ideas, Steve Babaeko said, “As the President of the Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria, its part of our agenda to keep putting Nigeria’s advertising on the global stage. I am glad we won this award as this is one step in the right direction. “The Make History Equal For Women piece was one created with a deep sense of respect for women and we’re glad it is getting the recognition it deserves. We’re also grateful to the jury and our colleagues in the advertising industry, across the globe, for always supporting our work. “And I’m proud of the X3M Ideas team as I know we will only continue to do great work that we can all be proud of.”
Lisbon International Advertising Festival was created in 2016 and is one of the most exclusive worldwide festivals in advertising. Recognised internationally by the quality of its jury members and speakers, it has gained such importance that it is already considered one of the most prestigious advertising awards in the world by many advertising industry personalities.