In commemoration of this year’s annual Chivita World Juice Day celebration, Chivita is rallying stakeholders and consumers for support. Celebrated on October 17, every year, the aim of the event is to foster a juice drinking culture among Nigerians with a view to adopting healthier lifestyles thereby building a healthy nation. According to a statement, experts and nutritionist are focused on how everyone ought to pay close attention to their health and their nutrition and get the right vitamins and minerals to ensure an effective immune system, since the outbreak of the pandemic. “Health-focused brands such as Chivita have been front and centre in these times with its pure fruit juice offerings that are rich in vitamins and minerals,” it stated. It pointed out that a recently published World Health Organisation (WHO) report emphasises that, “Adequate fruit and vegetable intake are required to help reduce nutritional deficiencies and increase resistance to infectious disease.” Furthermore, research has shown that consumers who take a glass of fruit juice a day enjoy essential benefits such as an effective immune system, improved skin care, lower blood pressure, improved eye function, as fruit juices contain antioxidants which supply the body with much-needed vitamins, it added. According to the Compass 2019 report, Nigeria is one of the countries with the lowest per capita fruit juice consumption in the world, consuming two litres per year as compared to eight litres average for Africa and 20 litres average globally. “This is a cause for concern because fruit juice consumption is one of the affordable ways of accessing the right doses of nutrients and minerals necessary for building stronger immunity. “It is in view of this all-important benefit of fruit juice consumption to health that Chivita celebrates the second edition of its Chivita World Juice Day – a follow up to the maiden edition that was launched last year. “The theme for this year’s event is: “Fruit Juice: the Smart Secret of Boosting Your Immunity.” This theme has become more pertinent especially now when hygiene and a strong immune system is key to keeping healthy,” it explained. According to the statement, this year’s Chivita World Juice Day was designed as a virtual event and would feature health experts and nutritionists as they provide insights and share their perspectives on how fruit juice consumption can strengthen the body.