Rebecca Ejifoma Leading American private University, Higher Place Christian University (HPCU) Atlanta, Georgia, has announced Nigeria’s Dr. Babajide Agunbiade as the keynote speaker for the 2020 Commencement Ceremony scheduled to hold at its main campus in Alpharetta, Georgia, the United States on October 10 this year. This was disclosed in a press release it issued on Friday October 2. Agunbiade, who will be speaking on “Not too late to connect with your purpose,” is a businessman, investor and one of the worlds leading offshore production experts with over 20 years experience in the oil industry. As director for Houston-based National Oilwell Varco, the largest oilfield equipment manufacturing company globally, Agunbiade has been responsible for several major, groundbreaking projects across Africa and the Gulf of Mexico. He leads business development activities in the design and engineering of subsea production systems, with a particular focus on flexible pipeline system and has won and completed about $2bn offshore projects. Agunbiade, a former principal Engineer at General Electric Gasification Business Group, prolific investor and accomplished philanthropist, is an alumnus of the same institution, where he obtained a Ph.D. in Leadership & Business. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Industrial & Production Engineering from the University of Ibadan, Nigeria, an MBA in Business Management from the American InterContinental University, Houston, Texas, as well as being a Ph.D. Scholar in Environmental Policy at Texas Southern University, amongst others. Other speakers at the ceremony are Accountant and Philanthropist, Dr. Courtney Epps; the Senior Pastor of The Church Without Walls International in Hammond, Louisiana, Dr. Marlin Daniels; and the duo of the president and vice president of the university, Dr. Uyi Abraham and Dr. Faith Abraham. Uyi is an award-winning coach, keynote speaker, serial entrepreneur, and best-selling author who has 20 years of experience in mentoring people on business and success principles. He is also the founder of Vonza – a company that makes it easy for entrepreneurs to start and run a profitable online business. Abraham, on the other hand, is the founder of Life Mastery School & Beauty and Brains Academy with a vision to empower women to walk in confidence, master their money, and destroy limiting beliefs to live the life they deserve. Consequent upon the ceremony, graduating students have been advised to make plans for their family and friends to attend the momentous event.