President, Gbajabiamila eulogise Oba of Lagos at 77 By Adedayo Akinwale and Adaora Orizu President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated a legal luminary and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Chief Afe Babalola, on his 91st birthday. This is coming as the President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila have also eulogised the Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Osuolale Akiolu as he marks his 77 birthday. The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, in a statement issued yesterday said, the President salutes the educationist for his high sense of patriotism, visionary leadership and penchant for always channelling his energy and resources into projects that directly impact the lives of Nigerians, and providing wise counsels to leaders in both the private and public sectors on best ways to move the country forward. “President Buhari congratulates Aare Babalola for another year added to his life, and more opportunities to give and show that sharing brings more joy than acquisition, while commending his antecedents in health, education and legal career, training more than 2,500 lawyers in the country, with 15 already recognized as Senior Advocates of Nigeria. “As the renowned lawyer and philanthropist turns 91, President Buhari prays that the almighty God will bless him and his family, and grant him longer life to keep serving the nation and humanity,” the statement said. According to a separate statement by presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, the president has also called the Oba of Lagos on the telephone to rejoice with him on his 77th birthday. He said the President also seized the opportunity to commiserate with the traditional ruler on the recent attack on his palace. In a related development, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Gbajabiamila has also eulogised the Oba of Lagos as he marks his 77 birthday. The Speaker, in a statement issued by his special adviser on media and publicity, Mr. Lanre Lasisi, said at 77, Akiolu remains a symbol of peace and unity not only in Lagos but in the entire country. Gbajabiamila noted that since becoming the Oba of Lagos in 2003, Akiolu has become a blessing, a pillar and is a lover of his people. He said, “Kabiyesi, today marks a commemorative day in your life as you clock 77. I join millions of our citizens to wish you a happy 77th birthday and God’s continuous guidance, blessing and wisdom.’’