The Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammad Maigari Dingyadi, has restated the federal government’s commitment to reform the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). Speaking at the Sokoto State Police Command headquarters Sunday, Dingyadi stated that President Muhammad Buhari, following the outcry of Nigerians against the misconduct of the defunct Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS), instantly directed the Inspector General Of Police (IG) Muhammad Abubakar Adamu to disband the unit. As part of the reforms the president directed the IG to introduce in the police force, the minister said, a new unit, Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) unit, with a mandate of stamping out crime, has commenced training in Rivers, Nasarawa and Osun States. According to him, the training would last for one month, after which the personnel would undergo psychological and mental test before final deployment. He said that President Buhari is sincere with the reforms in the police, resulting in his directive to the Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) to come up with a new salary structure for the Nigerian police. Dingyadi also said that as part of the reform, the government has established police trust fund to redefine policing in Nigeria, prioritising the welfare of personnel and equipping the police. He said: “The government is not happy about those who lost their lives and properties to this mayhem,” adding that the hoodlums, who hijacked the protests, would be brought to book to serve as deterrent to others. He called on the protesters to leave the streets to give government time to implement their demands, saying the demands need short, medium and long term implementations. Condemning the burning of police stations and looting of properties across the country, the minister stated that the Police Service Commission (PSC) would work with the judicial commissions of inquiry set up by different states to bring to book any erring policeman. Present at the briefing were the Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) in charge of Zone 10, Muhammad A. Mustapha, and Commissioner of Police, Sokoto State Command, Ibrahim Sani Kaoje.