By Nume Ekeghe The President and Chief Executive Officer of Erisco Foods Limited, Mr. Eric Umeofia, in a bid to uplift members of his community in Anambra state, has given out a total of N100 million in addition to an array of Erisco food products. The monies and gifts items were presented to lucky families at the Amichi Development Union Lagos Branch’s thanksgiving/meeting, held in Lagos recently. The event saw ten people becoming millionaires in an open process.
A widow who was present at the meeting won N1 million as well as nine men from the four quarters of Amichi, which included Okpala, Eze Udene, Afube and Ebenasa, who also went home with one million naira each. In addition, nine women who were runners up in the draw won N100, 000 each while four men won N100, 000 each. Another batch of fifty women from Amichi Development Union women wing went home with N50, 000 each while another batch of 50 men from Amichi Development Union, Lagos Branch were given N50, 000 each. He also said N40 million was reserved for 40 deserving men/women in his immediate kindred. Commenting on what prompted the act, Umeofia said: “The motive behind the benevolence was basically to lift as many people from my community out of poverty in view of the post COVID-19 challenges in line with his original vision of creating jobs, alleviating poverty and youth empowerment.” Also, at the end of the meeting, all the women present at the meeting went home with different forms of Erisco Foods products, including a bag of Erisco Rice, a bag of Erisco Wheat flour, rolls of Erisco Tomato paste, a carton of Erisco Garri mix and seasoning cubes. In his comment, the Chairman Interim government of Amichi Development Union Lagos Branch, Chief Mike Umeh commended Umeofia, saying: “It has been proven without any iota of doubt that the best secret of living an excellent life is by giving in terms of contributing to the wellbeing of others in our community and the country at large. “This best describes the life of the tomato king as he has consistently used his resources to improve the life of people around him irrespective of ethnic or religious connotation.” He urged the beneficiaries to make good use of the money in order for them to be a blessing to others.