The Lagos State Police Command yesterday disclosed that at least 10 police stations across the state have been burnt by hoodlums since the EndSARS protests started in the state. The spokesman of the command, Mr. Muyiwa Adejobi, in a statement issued yesterday, highlighted how suspected thugs wreaked havoc in different parts of the state. He said at least 10 stations had been set on fire across the state since violence marred the #EndSARS protests. However, he did not include police station in Ikotun, which was reportedly said to have been burnt yesterday afternoon. The Igando and Ikotun Police stations were said to have been set ablaze after security operatives failed in their bid to repel the attacks on the stations. “The hoodlums, who have been causing mayhem in Lagos State, under the guise of the ongoing EndSARS protest, have killed two policemen at Orile Police Station, wounded many at various stations and set ablaze ten (10) police formations across the state,” the statement read. “The violent and criminally-minded hoodlums descended on police stations/facilities and gruesomely murdered two policemen on Tuesday, October 20, 2020 and Wednesday, October 21, 2020, while others were critically injured. They looted the affected stations and carted away some valuables. “Some of the other affected police stations include Idimu, Igando, Layeni, Denton, Ilenbe Hausa, Ajah, Amukoko, Ilasa, Cele Outpost under Ijesha, disbanded SARS officer under Ajegunle, Ebute-Ero Mushin (Olosan) where two policemen were shot by the hoodlums, Ojo and Ajegunle where 2 patrol vans each were set ablaze. “Similarly, the hoodlums attacked three (3) new generation banks on Tuesday 20th October and Wednesday 21st October, 2020, respectively, and carted away unspecified amount of money while some parts of the banks were set on fire before they were dislodged, and some of them were arrested with the loots from the banks, including arms and ammunition. “At Ajegunle Area, they burnt the Secretariat of Ajeromi Ifelodun Local Government Council and some valuables including cars; and some other private medical and commercial centres were attacked.”