By Seriki Adinoyi No fewer than six persons, including a traditional ruler, Da Chung Gyang Mwadkwon, were on Monday night killed by gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen in Wereng community of Riyom Local Government Area of Plateau State. A member representing Riyom Constituency in the Plateau State House of Assembly, Hon. Timothy Dantong, confirmed the attacks and killing of the traditional ruler. He said the attack took place on Monday night by suspected Fulani herdsmen while the villagers were asleep, adding that three persons were injured during the attack and are now receiving treatment at Vom Christian Hospital. The lawmaker condemned the attack and described it as barbaric, and urged the security agencies to arrest the criminals. Also, the Chairman of Riyom Local Government, Mr. Mafeng Gwalson, who spoke on the sad incident, described the act as ugly and barbaric and called on security agencies to fish out the perpetrators. Mwadkwon was the acting village head of Wereng awaiting coronation before he was killed on Monday night by the assailants. The former council chairman of Riyom Local Government, Hon. Emmanuel Jugul, also condemned the attack on the villagers. He said three other seriously wounded people were immediately rushed to the Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH), where they are now receiving treatment, while the corpses of the six dead victims have been deposited at the same JUTH mortuary. It was gathered that the assailants, on reaching the area, started shooting sporadically, while the target victims were ruthlessly massacred. Last week Monday, when the Senate resumed sitting, Senator Istifanus Gyang, representing Plateau North senatorial district, moved a motion as a matter of urgent importance, calling on the security operatives to provide adequate security cover for first class monarchs in Plateau State. He told the Inspector General of Police (IG) to direct the Commissioner of Police in Plateau State to mobilize and beef up security in the zone and the state as a whole as it needs urgent attention. Over 10 first class and other traditional rulers have been murdered by unknown assailants in the state. There was the murder of a first class chief in Bokkos Local Government and that of the Acting District Head of Foron in Barkin Ladi Local Government who was shot dead when he was lured outside his palace to receive a phone call. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the Plateau State Police Command, Mr. Gabriel Ogaba, when contacted, confirmed the attack, saying the Police Commissioner, Edward Egbuka, has deployed more security to the village, adding that investigation is on to arrest the perpetrators of the attack.