By Deji Elumoye The Senate yesterday evening solicited the support of all Nigerian leaders across religious, political, ethnic and regional divides to join the government in putting an end to the ongoing #EndSARS protests by youths across the country. President of the Senate, Dr Ahmad Lawan, who expressed the concern of the upper legislative chamber after a marathon meeting with the Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Mohammad Adamu, and Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Mr. Yusuf Bichi, said the intervention of leaders at all levels in putting a stop to the protests will come in handy now. Lawan, who met with the security chiefs along with the entire leadership of the Senate, emphasised that what started as a very legitimate peaceful protest on equally legitimate demands has turned violent and completely hijacked by those who don’t know what the #EndSARS protesters were agitating for in the first place. His words: “The time has come for the hijacked protests to stop, requiring the intervention of leaders at all levels across the country regardless of religious, ethnic, political differences.
“Those who started the protests are no doubt, Patriots, the very reason the Senate in its first resolution on it two weeks ago, supported them and called on the Federal government to accede to their five-point demand. “Also at that time, President Muhammadu Buhari also responded well by not only endorsing the disbandment of Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) but declaring that holistic reform would be carried out in the Police. “Our appeal to Nigerians at this time, particularly leaders, is to join the government in bringing an end to the now hijacked protests, for the government to address the issues raised before violence set in.” According to him, Nigerians should not allow themselves to be taken in the wrong direction as being witnessed in some states of the federation. “The Senate at any time supports legitimate and peaceful protests by any Nigerian or group of Nigerians but not in support of any violent protest,” he stressed.