FBN Holdings Plc has announced the release of its 2019 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability (CR&S) Report. The CR&S report is an annual report that illustrates the Group’s stakeholder engagement and commitment to nation-building in line with its CR&S goals across the various strategic platforms of sustainable finance and investments, people empowerment, community support and environmental sustainability. FBNHoldings explained in a statement that over the years, it has demonstrated commitment to integrating corporate responsibility and sustainability into its business strategies and management processes. It stated that the report was based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines, Nigerian Sustainable Banking Principles (NSBPs), and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) guidelines.
“The 2019 CR&S report highlights FBNHoldings’ continuous deepening of its contributions in responsible lending and investments; community support and environmental sustainability through initiatives such as Environmental Social and Governance Management System (ESGMS) and SPARK (Start Performing Acts of Random Kindness). ESGMS is a framework consisting of a policy and procedures for screening transactions while SPARK – one of the key initiatives of the Group; is a values-based initiative that encourages stakeholders to be kind and empathic and gets everyone truly busy during the CR&S Week. “The CR&S week is a week dedicated to giving and sharing by all staff and stakeholders of the Group. 2019 marked the third year since its inception. Over 40 million people have been reached; 50,000 lives in 8 countries impacted; while there have been partnerships with 50 charities/NGOs,” it added. Expressing his delight about the strides reached by the Group as illustrated in the 2019 CR&S Report, the Managing Director, FBN Holdings, Mr. UK Eke said: “Since 1894, our objective of upholding the highest standards in corporate citizenship and creating value for the diverse stakeholder groups we serve has remained unchanged. Notwithstanding the results of our effort in forging a better environment, we still strive to deepen innovative and inclusive financial solutions for our customers, enrich the lives of those in the communities in which we operate, and minimize our environmental impact in line with our goals as a corporate organisation’’