Ibrahim Oyewale, Lokoja A Magistrate Court in Lokoja has ordered that a 69-year-old traditional ruler in Adavi Local Government Area (LGA), Kogi State, Asema Momoh Nasir and 10 others be remanded for alleged homicide. A senior magistrate, Agatha Shankyula gave the order due to a fracas that erupted during a protest against the nomination of chairman and councillors ahead of the local government election scheduled to hold on December 12.
THISDAY findings revealed that the opposing groups had unleashed terror and destroyed valuable property which also led to the breach of peace in the areas . Consequently, the police arrested the traditional ruler and others and detained them in police custody since last Wednesday.
The police later charged the traditional ruler and other suspects on Friday with criminal conspiracy, attempted culpable homicide, aiding and abetting, contrary to sections 97(1) 229, 325 and 89 of Kogi Penal Code Law. In her ruling, Shankyula ordered that they be remanded in the Federal Correctional Facility, Koton-Karfe, in Kogi Local Government Area of the state
She granted a motion ex-parte dated and filed October 2, by the prosecution led by Samuel Ikuntanwa, of the legal department of the state command of Nigeria Police. In her ruling, Shankyula held that the offence was serious in nature, adding that it had been stated in the affidavit, the need for further investigations. “It is on this basis that I tried the probable course to make this order. The suspects are to be remanded in the Federal Correctional Facility Koton-Karfe for the next 14 days pending investigation and legal advice from the office of the Attorney-General or the arraignment before the appropriate court on specific charges. “This order is given for the first instance and pursuant to the provisions of section 294(1) of the ACIJ of Kogi 2017,” she held. She adjourned the matter until October 16. Earlier, Sgt Tuesday Ganagana, in a motion, brought pursuant to sections 291 and 292 of the Kogi Administration of Criminal Justice Law, 2017, had sought an order of the court to remand the suspects at the Federal Correctional facility, Koton-Karfe. He argued that the suspects on September 28, attacked and injured a group of persons praying at Kabba junction for the proposed December 12 local government elections in the state.
The prosecution alleged that the suspects criminally aided by one Momoh Nasiru, armed themselves with guns, sticks, stones, knives and cutlasses and invaded the venue without provocation, attacked and inflicted various degrees of injury on about eight persons.
The defence counsel, Mu’azu Abbas, prayed the court to admit his clients to bail.