In this report Ugo Aliogo writes about the story of a man who rose from obscurity to a position of influence Growing up in poverty had a distinct impact on Billy Carson’s life, prompting him to rise out of obscurity to a position of influence over time. “I came from an extremely poor family,” he admitted. Living in one of the toughest ghettos in America located in Opa Locka, Florida, Billy strove to be great and excel beyond environmental circumstances. Instead, he chose to find a way to succeed and change the narrative. At the age of 12, he started his first business which involved the selling of digital car stereos. By the time he was 13 years old, he was earning more than his parents. By the time he was 16 years old, he had moved out of his parents’ house. He became an entrepreneur and built several multi-million dollar businesses. One of the multi-million dollar businesses he has founded is his entertainment company, 4biddenknowledge.tv, a groundbreaking, culture-shifting organisation that doesn’t play by bland entertainment tropes. “My entertainment company produces and licenses educational programming and conscious music,” he said about 4biddenknowledge.tv. Speaking further, he noted: “I also own a record label named Pantheon Elite Records. Under that label, I co-wrote and produced an album that made the billboard charts in 2018 for 8 weeks straight. The album is named Return Of Enki by Donny Arcade. Not one to be limited to just one field, Carson is a prolific writer, authoring a best-seller titled: The Compendium of The Emerald Tablets that challenges the conceptions of human development. Talking about the motivation for his efforts, Carson said: “I really wanted to empower people to live their dreams and also become more educated about the universe and the energy that connects us all.” He is not about to stop his work as he is hard at work on another book right now, “I am currently writing a new book called the Epic of Humanity. At the same time, I am filming a new documentary entitled ‘Black Knight Satellite (the untold story).”