Bennett Oghifo The Nigerian Guild of Editors has demanded adequate security for journalists and media houses, condemning recent attack on some of them as unwarranted. The Guild, in a statement yesterday, signed by its President, Mustapha Isah and General Secretary, Mary Atolagbe, said, “The call for adequate security for media houses has become imperative because of Tuesday’s attacks on Television Continental (TVC), The Nation Newspapers, Lagos Television and Traffic Radio. Other media houses such as Channels TV and Galaxy TV had to go off air temporarily as a precautionary measure.” The Guild stated that the media should not be made to operate in an insecure atmosphere, which was its reason for its appeal to the government “to provide adequate security for media houses to enable them perform their Constitutional role of informing the public and holding leaders accountable to the people.” They said, “The government should also consider providing compensation to the affected media houses to enable them bounce back and keep their employees at work.” They noted that “the Nigerian media contributed immensely to the current democracy being enjoyed in Nigeria and should therefore operate in an atmosphere of unfettered access to information and peace. “The Guild recalls that journalists had engaged in reporting all sides since the #EndSARS protests erupted. “This is against the background of their Constitutional duty of informing the public of developments in the country, and they discharged such responsibilities even at the risk of their lives.” Also, Photjourlists Association of Nigeria (PJAN) has condemned recent attack on three of its members by hoodlums. According to a statement by the association’s Chairman, Mr. Kola Olasupo and its Secretary, Mr Sylvester Okoruwa, two of the attacked members were staff of The Nation Newspapers, Deputy Photo Editor, Comrade Isaac Jimoh Ayodele and Abiodun Williams, Ayodele, also served as NUJ Lagos Internal Auditor. The statement said Okoruwa was attacked by hoodlums at Mofoluku area of Oshodi, Lagos, while taking shots of the burnt Makinde Police Station. Williams was attacked at Yaba after he identified himself as a Photojournalist to the hoodlums who accosted him. They said the third member, Mr. Mike Otogo a Photojournalist with The Economy Magazine, was attacked at Ojodu area of Lagos when he went to photograph the Ojodu Police Station that was set ablaze by hoodlums. They were lucky to escape, the statement said but their cameras were smashed, the officials said, adding. “This attack is one too many, we plead with the protesters to see us as partners.” who believe in their cause and allow our members to carry out their official duties.” They officials advised their members to stay safe and be security conscious as they carry out their normal duties.