By Christopher Isiguzo The Pan Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, yesterday asked the President Muhamadu Buhari-led administration to without further delay embark on the complete overhauling of the country’s security architecture as the first step towards addressing the ongoing #EndSARS protest. The organisation also demanded that the government should as a matter of urgency initiate the process of restructuring this country as the only way of holistically tackling the basic problems on ground. Ohanaeze Ndigbo President-General worldwide, Chief Nnia Nwodo, in a statement made available to journalists in Enugu yesterday lamented that the ongoing protests have exposed the deep-rooted challenges facing the country, insisting that urgent steps must be taken to resolve them. He noted that the rebellion by the youths has brought to the fore the fundamental security challenges embedded in the erroneous political imbalance in the country. The organisation also condemned in strongest terms what he called the targeting of properties belonging to Ndigbo by hoodlums in the nationwide protest. According to Nwodo, the fact that the youth rebellion continues days after the disbanding of the notorious police outfit, SARS, shows that the problem is fundamental, and should be intellectualised from that perspective. “It has shown that the surface scratching by the Inspector General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, in dissolving SARS and forming SWAT, goes far away from addressing the deep rooted problems of policing in the country,” the group said. The Ohanaeze leader noted that SARS menace has also thrown a challenge to the country’s elites and government over prolonged neglect of that critical segment of the country’s life. Nwodo said the only viable and enduring solution to the current situation is to harken to the clarion call of majority of Nigerians to redesign the country in such a way that could address the prevailing injustice. He added that a problem like the current one was bound to come up when the country continually lived in denial as operating a federal structure, while in truth, it is running a confederation in such multi-cultural and divergent country. Nwodo, however, expressed regrets, condemning in strong terms the targeting of some Igbo people’s businesses, particularly in Abuja, by hoodlums pretending to be countering the genuine protesters, and warned that such ‘wicked act’ would have far-reaching consequences. He charged the government to not only protect lives and property of every citizen, but arrange a compensation for such mindless destructions.