In support of Nigeria’s 60th anniversary celebration, HiiT Plc, Nigeria’s information and communications technology (ICT) Training firm, has concluded arrangements to empower about 2,500 Nigerian graduates in the 36 states of the federation as well as the federal capital territory, Abuja. Not less than 60 residents each from the 36 states of the federation and the FCT would be shortlisted for this exercise. HiiT has therefore advised that interested persons to visit the programme website to confirm qualification for the opportunity, adding that a Nigerian graduate, who is not older than 35 years, is qualified to apply. It will, however, be on first come, first served basis, as the company would not exceed the number of slots it has prepared to cater for under this offer, which entry closes in two weeks’ time. This development, is part of the company’s resolve and activities to mark Nigeria’s 60th Independent anniversary as a corporate citizen that believes in the future of the Nigerian youths. HiiT has excelled in IT Training/Education, Publishing, IT Consultancy and IT Solutions Development and Services in the country over the last 25 years. The Chief Executive Officer of HiiT, Mr. Kayode Shobajo, said about 60 per cent discount would be offered under the exercise on 30 globally trending ICT courses via HiiT Online Training Portal, an instructor led training portal. “To qualify for a discount voucher, all a graduate needs do is to visit the website or scan a QR code that is visibly displayed on the website. The discount voucher offer will close on October 10 and will be valid for a period of one year, October 1, 2021,” Shobajo said. Some of the courses that will be on offer on the programme include Certificate in Digital Literacy, Digital Marketing, Certified Ethical Hacker, Graphic Design, Python Programming, Web Design, Java Programming, Data Analysis, Microsoft Excel (Advanced) and CompTIA N+. Others include JavaScript Programming, Python for Data Science, Cloud Computing and PHP Programming, among others. Shobajo highlighted the huge success that the company’s recent scholarship programme for Nigerian universities students recorded as its contribution to COVID-19 pandemic. About N20 million worth of scholarships were offered to students in Nigerian universities. He disclosed that HiiT online training offers instructor-led training coupled with other training methodology including live interactive classes, videos, slides, whiteboards and simulation labs to impact Information Technology (IT) skills that are in huge demands by employers. According to the testimonies of some recent graduates of HiiT online training, it has really impacted on their capacity to be more productive and employable.