Peter Uzoho A former Governor of Jigawa State, Mr. Sule Lamido, has criticised the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo; Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum and other elected leaders in the country for allegedly talking about cracks and division of the country under their watch. Lamido also came hard on some elder statesmen including Chief Edwin Clark, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, General Theophilus Danjuma (rtd), Chief Nnia Nwodo, and Prof. Ango Abdulahi for “entertaining dividing the country” that helped them to succeed. Lamido stated these in his message to mark Nigeria’s 60th Independence Anniversary. Recounting the pleasant memories of the past about the country and the peace, unity and good relationship that existed among Nigerians at the time, irrespective of their diversities, he pleaded that Nigeria should not break up. Lamido said: “Here we are today at 60, regional leaders in their late eighties and nineties like Edwin Clark, a minister under Gowon, Ayo Adebanjo – Awolowo’s disciple – my brother, Nwodo; a Zikist, Gen. Danjuma who fought for unity and Prof. Ango, northern elder, are now entertaining dividing the country, which has been there for them to be what they are today. “Even those born after independence like Mustapha, champion of Northern group, Kanu of IPOB; Asari of Niger Delta, Yinka of Afenifere are also nibbling the bait of division! “To compound the problem, even leaders freely elected in government are confessing their failure. Is it not frightening to hear Osinbajo, the number two in command, talking about cracks and division under their watch; or governor Zulum, advising that we invite Chadians to defend and protect our sovereignty? And Buhari who fought as a soldier to unite Nigeria, now as president is to be our undertaker? What really is wrong with us or rather what went wrong?” He said that “Those of us in the penthouse (former or serving presidents, governors, captains of industry, Imams, clerics, university dons, technocrats and the entire elite family) should note that a united Nigeria has been there for us.” He wondered what their generation could give back to Nigeria, so that others coming behind them and even generations unborn could also actualise their dreams He said he grew up in the village 72 years ago under the combined support and protection of his parents, community, leaders, formal and informal institutions and his country, Nigeria. Lamido further narrated: “In my adult life through my work places in Nigerian Railways in Zaria as pupil engineer, Nigerian Tobacco Co Limited as quality controller and later salesman in the then North-west and North-east and AC Christlieb as marketing manager in Lagos, Nigeria was there for me. “I have travelled from Lagos through Ijebu Ode to Ore Benin, Asaba, Uli, Ihiala, Owerri, Port Harcourt, Aba, Uyo, Calabar, Itigidi up to Awka! I have been everywhere in the East, West and North. Wherever I travelled, I met fellow human beings, not Ibos, Yoruba, Kanuri, Munchi, Ijaws, Chakiri or Fulani nor Muslims, Christians or free thinkers. “And in any community I was, there existed love and friendship such that I felt as safe and secure as in my village, Bamaina. “Later in 1979, as a parliamentarian and member of the Federal House of Representatives in Lagos, it was the same spirit of comradeship. As parliamentarian tour work took me around the world, it made me appreciate Nigeria better. “When I became Minister of Foreign Affairs, my outlook was fully broadened, my instincts sharpened and I came to understand the role God destined Nigeria to play as leader of the Black race”.