By Femi Solaja with agency report Saudi Arabia Pro League side, Al Nassr, have officially confirmed Ahmed Musa’s departure from the club. Musa, 28, is now a free agent and is reported to have parted ways with the club mutually as he hopes to continue with his professional career in Europe after two-year spell with the Saudi team. In a post on Twitter on Monday, the Najd’s Knight established the jet-heeled forward’s exit while wishing him the very best. “Thank you Nigerian falcon, wishing you all the best in the future Ahmed Musa!,” Al Nassr tweeted. Having completed his loan spell at CSKA Moscow, the Nigeria international joined the Asian outfit on a four-year contract from Leicester City. Al Nassr beat several European clubs to the signing of the ex-Kano Pillars man who impressed at the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia with two goals in three matches. Weeks later, he opened his Saudi Professional League account with a hat-trick as his team hammered Al Quadisiya 3-0 at Riyadh’s King Fahd Stadium. In 58 appearances, he scored 11 goals and got 14 assists while helping the team win the 2018-19 Saudi top-flight diadem and the 2019 Saudi Super Cup. Musa, who is expected to announce his destination in the coming days, recently surpassed John Obi Mikel as the third most-capped Super Eagles player having featured in the international friendlies against Algeria and Tunisia, and in the process got his 93rd Nigeria cap.
He shot into international limelight after helping Nigeria U23 win the 2010 WAFU Nations Cup where he scored goals against Benin Republic and Burkina Faso. His performance saw him invited to the senior national team prior to the 2010 FIFA World Cup, albeit, he did not make the 30-man squad due to an ankle injury. At the 2011 FIFA U20 World Cup in Colombia, the former Kano Pillars man scored three goals in five matches and he was included by FIFA’s shortlist for the Adidas Golden Ball. After representing the country at youth level, the ex-VV Venlo star made his senior debut on August 5, 2010 in the 2012 Africa Cup of Nations qualification against Madagascar – coming in as a substitute for Mikel in the 2-0 win.