Gboyega Akinsanmi Eko indigenes under the aegis of Isale Eko Descendants’ Union and Forum of Eko Princes & Princesses yesterday asked the Lagos State Government to investigate the invasion of the palace of Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu. Consequently, the indigenes described the invasion of Akiolu’s palace as an act of sacrilege committed by criminal elements, who desecrated the traditional heritage of the indigenous people of Isale Eko. They expressed these concerns in separate statements Chairman, Isale Eko Descendants’ Union, Mr. Yomi Tokosi and Coordinator of Forum of Eko Princes and Princesses, Mr. Adewale Ojora issued at the weekend, condemning the invasion. At the height of #EndSARS protest Wednesday, criminal elements invaded Iga Idunganran – the Palace of Oba of Lagos – carting away traditional instruments of office and other valuables and artefacts. Disturbed by the invasion, Ojora asked the state government to investigate the invasion of the palace and ensure that every individual responsible for the attack was brought to book. He specifically urged the state government “to do more than investigating the invasion of the palace. It must ensure that justice is done and everyone behind the attack is brought to book as a deterrent to future recurrence. “The Oba palace is our collective heritage and no person should desecrate it. The traditional institution of Oba of Lagos is extremely important. Any attempt to desecrate the institution will not be tolerated.” He also urged sons and daughters of Isale Eko “to come together to salvage that heritage to ensure that such never repeats itself again. The government has a lot to do in this aspect. Definitely, what happened in the land has nothing to do with traditional institutions.” In strong terms, Ojora condemned the attack, desecration and vandalisation of the palace by hoodlums and criminal elements masquerading as aggrieved EndSARS protesters. He said the ancient palace, which is the official residence of the Oba of Lagos, was originally built in 1670 and still remains a historical monument and a cultural rallying point for Lagosians. He said: “Reviewing the damning footage of the violent invasion by these miscreants and vandals, it is disheartening to observe the wanton desecration of our traditional heritage in Lagos. We totally condemn this attack and demand that it ceases immediately and urge the security services to secure the palace.” Tokosi, Chairman of Isale Eko Descendants’ Union, also lamented that the organised peaceful #EndSARS protest in Lagos State had been hijacked by hoodlums who went on rampage through the streets of Lagos causing untold destruction and looting. He said the destruction “has been extended to our ancestral seat of power, the Iga Idunganran, the Palace of our Oba. The Palace was invaded by armed hoodlums who carted away traditional instruments of office and other valuables and artefacts.” He, therefore, condemned the acts of sacrilege committed by the culprits and called for cessation of attacks to allow peace to reign in all parts of Lagos State. He explained that Iga Idunganran “belongs to all sons and daughters of Isale Eko and its sanctity is our collective duty. The palace is the custodian of centuries’ old priceless and irreplaceable heritage artefacts that have been passed down through generations. “We are consoled that the monarch and his family are safe and secure. All sons and daughters of Isale Eko should lend their weight to this clarion call for the security of our Heritage.”