Good music, good food, glittering atmosphere, and many more. On Friday, October 16th, stakeholders in the integrated marketing communications sector honoured one of their own at the awards of excellence organized by John Ajayi led Marketing Edge in Ikeja, Lagos. Funke Olaode who was there captured the moment The atmosphere was electrifying and superlative. From the entrance where polite and courteous staff members of Marketing Edge were stationed to welcome the invited guests to the sprawling D’podium International Event Centre, Ikeja, Lagos which sparkled with glitz and glamour, it was obvious that invited guests were in for a nice time. Gbenga Adeyinka was at his best as the MC while a six-man band was at their element churning out good music serenading the guests. Food was in abundance while exotic drinks and champagne flowed freely. The stakeholders in the Integrated Marketing Communications, advertising sector, esteemed awardees and marketing icons, multinational companies and the media, Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Lagos State, Mr. Gbenga Omotosho who represented Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State were all present. The chairman of the occasion was Mr. George Thorpe.
It was a glorious moment for John Ajayi, Publisher/CEO Marketing Edge Publications when it hosted the 7th edition of Brands and Advertising Awards of Excellence where outstanding personalities in the industry were recognized and honoured. Marketing Edge, Nigeria’s leading brands and marketing publications has, in 17 years of existence consistently expanded the frontiers of marketing knowledge and celebrated the industry’s best through the celebration of creative excellence awards in line with its vision of Promoting the Brand. Looking dashing in his dinner suits, elated Ajayi said he was overwhelmed by his colleagues’ show of solidarity and support. “Tonight is not for a long talk. Yet, I must pay special tributes and respect to all the players in the Nigerian integrated marketing communications sector for their contributions to the growth and development of their respective industries. You have not done badly at all in the last ten years. We wish you keep it up. As we commend the players, we also want to thank the brand owners i.e. the ‘pay-masters’ for being good clients over the years. Your support for the growth of marketing and advertising services in Nigeria is phenomenal. “At MARKETING EDGE, I must confess, we have enjoyed the support and acceptance of both the clients and the advertising industry over the years. As a matter of fact, our venture into the brand journalism business is as a result of the urgent need to expand the frontiers of knowledge in the marketing and advertising industry.
“Before our arrival in the market, the marketing and advertising industry was largely under-reported. As a matter of fact, there was more or less a complete ignorance about the new genre of journalism as regards brands and advertising reporting. “Seventeen years down the line, we can confidently say that MARKETING EDGE has come fairly a long way. Our sojourn in the industry these past years has no doubt made us an authoritative and dependable ally to all players in the brand management business in Nigeria. Over the years, we have established a track record of credible journalism in the coverage of the industry. We have watched the changing phases of the industry, both in terms of fortunes and otherwise. While the Nigerian economy keeps evolving, it is our candid prayer that the good times will soon be here. “For us at MARKETING EDGE, this year’s award is one with a special attraction and uniqueness. It was organically planned and designed to reboot, re-start and re-energize the social, intellectual, and entrepreneurial landscape of the Nigeria IMC. We are particularly excited to organize this award event to celebrate the triumph of humanity over the calamitous ravage of the Covid-19 pandemic which origin remains an elusive medical contestation. While some may say it is not yet time to shout eureka, as we are all still in the mood and moment of Covid-19 protocols, we cannot continue to hold ourselves in bondage to the evil we are yet to understand its source and origin. We shall over-come. But we shall not go back on keeping safe in line with the present social distancing order. Let all remain hopeful as the battle is more than half a won and life will soon return in full force. “Our resolve to recognize these players and gladiators as well as iconic leaders in the business of brand management and the management of the brand business was equally informed by the fact that these are the people that have made the industry tick over the years. We have watched and monitored these individuals and agencies very closely in the last seventeen years and can confidently attest to their market leadership, resilience, excellence, and above all landmark achievements in their various sectors.” Prior to the award nights, there was a Marketing Edge 2020 National Marketing Stakeholders Summit via Zoom. In attendance were distinguished guest Speaker, Mr. Andisa Ntsubane, respectable panelists of the MARKETING EDGE Annual Summit Board and board of Rapporteurs. With its team, Making your Business Future-fit: The Post Digital Age Challenge, The MARKETING EDGE National Marketing Stakeholders Summit was aimed primarily at initiating new conversations that are germane and sacrosanct to the growth and development of the integrated marketing communications sector in Nigeria. It was a forum where professionals, industry leaders, experts, and thought leaders cutting across a broad spectrum of the micro and macro-economic sectors shared knowledge and insights that provided stakeholders with the requisite compass to navigate today’s competitive business environment. In his speech, Hon. Gbenga Omotosho commended John Ajayi led Marketing Edge for its vision. Going down memory lane on how his path crossed with Ajayi, Omotosho said, “John and I have come a long way in the newsroom when there were no gadgets such as computer, internet and had to chase reporters for stories to meet the deadline. He has always been a hardworking man. Diligent, focused and I am not surprised that he has become a brand on his own. Thanking invited guests for supporting his friend, Omotosho praised their resilience.  “Despite the COVID-19, you still came out. This shows the resilient spirit of Lagosians that whatever the situation, Lagosians can dare when it comes to branding and entertainment. Enjoy your evening and this is wishing my friend the best.”
Awards of excellence later presented to different categories of people such as Agency of the Year; Outstanding Young Creative of the Year, Regulatory Agency of the year amongst others.