By John Shiklam Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, has cancelled the initial recommendation by the kingmakers of Zazzau Emirate for the selection of the new Emir and directed that a fresh process should commence. The state government yesterday disclosed that the kingmakers were directed to initiate a fresh process to recommend candidates for office of the 19th Fulani Emir of Zazzau from 13 candidates. The governor cancelled the initial recommendation of three princes- Alhaji Bashar Aminu, the Iyan Zazzau; Munir Ja’afaru, the Yariman Zazzau; and Aminu Idris, the Turakin Zazzau on the ground that the kingmakers were not fair to other contenders and insisted all aspirants should be given the chance to contest. The Special Adviser to the governor on Media and Communication, Mr. Muyiwa Adekeye, in a statement issued yesterday, quoted the Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Balarabe Abbas Lawal, as explaining that the state government had directed a new round of selection process following the cancellation of the initial process, which excluded two interested applicants. The statement reads: “Kingmakers of Zazzau Emirate are currently engaged in a fresh process to recommend candidates for the office of the 19th Fulani Emir of Zazzau, the Secretary to the State Government Balarabe Abbas Lawal has disclosed. “The SSG explained that the Kaduna State Government directed a new round of the selection process following the cancellation of the initial process, which excluded two interested applicants. “The Bunu Zazzau complained that he was unable to submit his application because he was told that the window for receipt of applications had closed. The Sarkin Dajin Zazzau also protested his exclusion from the process. “It was also noted that the kingmakers assessed two candidates on 24th September 2020 without sighting their CVs which the selectors received a day later. “The SSG said that the state government considers as highly irregular the leakage of the report of the selection meeting of 24th September 2020 before its receipt by the state governor. “The kingmakers are now meeting to assess all the 13 candidates that indicated interest from all the ruling houses, including the two that were previously excluded. “The report of these assessments will be swiftly submitted to the governor for his consideration.” Adekeye quoted the SSG as saying that the report of these assessments will be swiftly submitted to the governor for his consideration.