By Victor Ogunje The police in Ekiti State yesterday paraded two minors and four other suspects in connection with the alleged arson attack on three police stations in the state. People suspected to be hoodlums had razed two Divisional Police Stations and the Area Command’s office in Ikere Ekiti last week when the #EndSARS protest was hijacked. The suspects included Odeyemi Sina (12) and Ayomide Akomolafe (13). Others are Alao Emmanuel, Ojuko Tobi, Sunday Salihu and Kosedake Olamilekan. The Police Public Relations Officer, Mr. Sunday Abutu, said the minors were arrested at the scene of the incident. Abutu said: “When the #EndSARS protest started, everything was done peacefully until October 20 when some hoodlums stormed our Area Command in Ikere Divisional Police Station and burnt the police station and vehicles there. “They also went to two divisional police stations, particularly the Afao Ikere division and set the station and vehicles there ablaze. Police men were even wounded while others had to run for their lives. “These suspects were caught in the act and they have confessed to the crime. A lot of names have been mentioned those that were involved would be arrested and prosecuted.” He added that the suspects and others also looted the exhibit room and set the station ablaze, including all the vehicles parked in and around the station. “A joint operation team of the police, the military and other security agencies was immediately deployed to the scene to stop further damage. “In the process, six suspects were arrested at the scene of crime while others took to their heels. Confessional statements made by the suspects arrested suggest they actively participated in the burning down of the stations,” he said. Abutu stated that the suspects in their confessional statements mentioned the names of some people who would be arrested and prosecuted accordingly. “We are spreading our dragnets and all the names mentioned by these suspects will be arrested. They are all at large, but we are trailing them and in the course of investigation, they will be apprehended,” he said.