by Bennett Oghifo The E-Class is one of the key models that make up the core of the Mercedes-AMG brand. The comprehensive update applied to the latest generation encompasses the Saloon, Estate, Coupé and Cabriolet models with six- and eight-cylinder engines, which range in output from 320 kW (435 hp) to 450 kW (612 hp). A statement by the automaker, the sporty driving dynamics of the performance models from Affalterbach remain unchanged and are now combined with enhanced everyday comfort. The standard-specification fully variable all-wheel drive system AMG Performance 4MATIC+ guarantees optimum traction in any driving conditions. Also fitted as standard is the AMG SPEEDSHIFT 9-speed transmission, which combines fast shift operation with exceptional efficiency. The redesigned front section and AMG-specific radiator grille of this latest distinctive design update reinforce the affiliation to the AMG family even further. The interior has also been thoroughly enhanced: the Widescreen Cockpit, the new AMG Performance steering wheel and the MBUX infotainment system with AMG-specific functions and displays offer a high level of digitalisation and thus a sophisticated user experience that is very much in keeping with the times. Heading up the Mercedes-AMG E-Class family are the E 63 4MATIC+ models (combined fuel consumption 11.9-11.6 l/100 km, combined CO2 emissions 273-265 g/km)[1], featuring a 4.0-litre biturbo engine in two output categories with 450 kW (612 hp) or 420 kW (571 hp) and in both Saloon and Estate form. In order to ensure optimum airflow, the outer inlets in the ‘jet wing’ of the redesigned front section are not only particularly large, but also feature two transverse louvres that help to guide the air in targeted fashion to where it is needed. Designers and aerodynamics experts worked closely together during development. Their insights resulted not only in the striking AMG bodystyling but also in the optimised aerobalance – for agile handling characteristics on country roads and optimum driving stability on the motorway. The aerodynamics experts were also able to reduce the wind resistance even further. A further distinctive visual feature of the eight-cylinder models: a harmoniously fitting flap in high-gloss black which extends across the entire front apron, continues into the outer edge of the jet-wing and rounds this off outwards to the sides. The front splitter is either kept in the colour of the vehicle (base model), in Silver Shadow (S-Model), in high-gloss black (with optional AMG Night Package) or in carbon fibre (with the optional AMG Exterior Carbon-Fibre Package I). The muscular flare of the wheel arches, a full 27 millimetres wider on each side, makes space for the wider track and the larger wheels on the front axle – yet another functional advantage. The E 53 4MATIC+ models in Saloon, Estate, Coupé and Cabriolet guise (combined fuel consumption: 9.2-8.5 l/100 km; combined CO2 emissions: 210-194 g/km) likewise feature a redesigned front section that gives them even more powerful appeal. The AMG-specific radiator grille with its A-shaped outline, and the flat headlamps, serve to reinforce the impression of width. New rear end design conveys more elegance and lightness Two new, flatter tail lights now with two sections immediately catch the eye on the tail end of the Saloon. They now extend into the boot lid, where they are visually linked with a trim strip in high-gloss chrome on the top. On the Estate this trim strip extends even further up to the end of the outer rear lamps. Their shape is unchanged, but has been given a new interior design in the look of the Saloon. The airflow break-away edge on the boot lid of the Saloon is painted in the vehicle colour; with the optional AMG Exterior Carbon-Fibre package II it is in carbon fibre. The reshaped rear apron emphasises the effect of width, while also having a positive effect on the aerodynamics. The final touch to the rear section of the car is added by the likewise redesigned diffuser. Aerodynamically optimised wheels and individual Design Packages Aerodynamically optimised and painted in a choice of matt black or high-gloss tantalite grey, the new 19-inch (series) or 20-inch (optional) light-alloy wheels add fresh highlights. The E 63 S-Model is fitted as standard with new 20-inch 5-twin-spoke light-alloy wheels, also aerodynamically optimised and with a wider aero rim edge, painted in a choice of matt black or high-gloss tantalite grey. Further individual focuses can be set with the optional AMG Night Package. The exterior mirror housings, window frames, inserts in the side sill panels and trim elements in the front and rear apron remain in this case in high-gloss black. There are also tailpipe trim elements in black chrome. The AMG-specific radiator grille is also available in a darkened design. Exclusively available for the 63-series models, the AMG Exterior Carbon-Fibre package I comprises the front splitter, inserts in the side sill panels, and the trim element in the rear apron in carbon fibre. The AMG Exterior Carbon-Fibre package II adds individual highlights with mirror caps and a spoiler lip on the boot lid (Saloon) in carbon fibre. Fine interior with sporty note and high comfort on long journeys The interior combines a fine ambience and high-quality materials with the characteristic AMG performance. The AMG seats combine secure lateral support with exceptional comfort on long journeys and have an AMG-specific seat upholstery layout with an “AMG” badge in the front seat backrests. A characteristic feature of the E 53 models is the upholstery in ARTICO man-made leather/DINAMICA microfibre in black with an AMG layout, red contrasting topstitching and an AMG badge. The eight-cylinder models feature leather seat upholstery as standard, while numerous leather variants are optionally available for all models. AMG Performance seats with integrated head restraints and even better lateral support can also be ordered on request. The product managers have further refined the interior of the E 63 S version, with features such as nappa leather trim for the dashboard and beltlines as well as seat belts in crystal grey. Nappa leather in black/titanium grey pearl with yellow contrasting topstitching is in the range as a new AMG-specific upholstery. Individually adjustable ambient lighting also comes as standard. A further highlight is the MBUX infotainment system with a touchscreen and touchpad, the intelligent voice control plus AMG-specific displays and settings. The two displays for the instrument cluster and multimedia displays blend visually beneath a shared glass cover to form the Widescreen Cockpit. In the base model the monitors measure 10.25 inches diagonally, on the S-Model 12.25-inch screens are on board as standard. For the instrument cluster’s display, the customer can switch between the three AMG display styles of “Modern Classic”, “Sport” and “Supersport”. The “Supersport” mode is particularly striking with a central, round rev counter and horizontal displays presented in perspective to the left and right of the rev counter and creating a spatial impression of depth. Via the AMG menu, the driver can call up various special AMG displays such as Engine Data, gear speed indicator, Warm-up, Set-Up, G-Meter and RACETIMER. With individual AMG displays such as visualisation of the drive programs or telemetry data, the touchscreen multimedia display likewise underscores the dynamic configuration. On first-name terms: “Hey Mercedes” with additional functions And needless to say, the trailblazing voice control activated with the words “Hey Mercedes” is also part of the standard specification. Thanks to artificial intelligence, MBUX recognises and understands nearly all sentences from the fields of infotainment and vehicle operation, even if they are expressed indirectly. In many countries MBUX now addresses the customer with the familiar form of “you” rather than more formally. It is hoped that this will help reinforce the emotional tie between the customer and MBUX as a personal assistant. As a further new feature it is possible to have the weather forecast for certain regions read out – in virtually all languages. New AMG Performance steering wheel in twin-spoke design With a distinctive twin-spoke design and seamlessly integrated buttons the new AMG Performance steering wheel creates an even closer link between human and machine. The three rounded twin spokes combine stability with lightness, and the steering wheel rim is a hallmark motorsport feature. The cover is selectable in leather, in DINAMICA microfibre or as a combination of leather and DINAMICA microfibre, on request with steering wheel heating. In the steering wheel rim there is also a sensor mat to detect “hands-on”. If the driver does not have their hands on the steering wheel for a certain time, a warning cascade is started, which finally activates Emergency Brake Assist if the driver continues to be inactive.