*All 26 players now in camp. Train twice on Tuesday in new NIKE kits By Duro Ikhazuagbe Al Nassr winger and Nigeria Captain, Ahmed Musa and KRC Genk’s forward, Paul Onuachu were the last two players to arrive Super Eagles’ Hotel Die Ziet camp in Austria Tuesday as the 26-man squad started training ahead the international friendly with African champions Algeria on Friday. Both players missed the morning training but were part of the afternoon session. Musa has not seen action in his Saudi Arabian club since returning after the Covid-19 lockdown to spark off speculations he could be on his way out of the team. Onuachu on the other hand was a late call up for Victor Osimhen who is on 14-day isolation with the rest of his Napoli teammates in Italy. Media Officer of the team, Toyin Ibitoye confirmed to THISDAY last night that all the expected 26 players were now in camp ahead of the friendlies with Algeria and Tunisia on Friday and Tuesday next week respectively. “Both Ahmed Musa and Paul Onuachu were the last two players to arrive camp yesterday as Super Eagles begin training ahead of the international friendlies with Algeria and Tunisia,” stressed the spokesman of the team. He confirmed that the team under the watch of German Gernot Rohr trained twice on Tuesday and will repeat the same regime today. Ibitoye admitted the mood in the Eagles camp was really good as both old and new players bonded like one family. According to other camp sources, former Germany U20 Captain, Kevin Akpoguma who FIFA gave nod to his switch to play for Nigeria at the weekend, is likely to make his debut against Algeria on Friday. “We are also excited by the youthful four goalkeepers in camp here in Austria. This has created room for competition for who to claim the number one jersey as we build towards the AFCON 2022 qualifier next month,” observed top official in Austria. The four players in camp include; 20-year Old Tobias Lawal who plays for LASK (Austria), 21-year Old Matthew Yakubu of SKF Sered (Slovakia), 21-year Old, Maduka Okoye of Sparta Rotterdam (The Netherlands and 23-year Old Dele Alampasu of FK Ventspils (Latvia). The keepers are been put through their paces by former Super Eagles goalkeeper, Alloy Agu. Some of the players took to the social media to express their happiness at the new NIKE kits shipped into Austria for their use in the two friendlies. They looked radiant and cool in the new designed training gear both in the morning and at the afternoon training sessions. CD Legane defender in the second tier Spanish league, Kenneth Omeruo said on Twitter yesterday: “A light one… good to link up with the boys.. Loving this new kits from @nikefootball #Nike #omeruo #rainbow #supereagles @ Blumenhalle St. Veit,” Omeruo tweeted with his photo in the new NIKE kit. The Super Eagles will take on reigning African champions Algeria on Friday night, before they take on second-ranked Tunisia on Tuesday next week. ALL THE PLAYERS IN CAMP YESTERDAY 1. Chidera Ejuke 2. Kenneth Omeruo 3. Samuel Kalu 4. Simon Moses 5. Samson Tijani 6. Leon Balogun 7. Mathew Yakubu 8. William Troost-Ekong 9. Semi Ajayi 10. Ola Aina 11. Alex Iwobi 12. Dele Alampasu 13. Frank Onyeka 14. Kelechi Iheanacho 15. Jamilu Collins 16. Dessers Cyril 17. Kevin Akpoguma 18. Tobias Lawal 19. Maduka Okoye 20. Tyronne Ebuehi 21. Chidozie Awaziem 22. Zaidu Sanusi 23. Samuel Chukwueze 24. Mikel Agu 25. Paul Onuachu 26. Ahmed Musa (Captain)