* Text Box: Tenders apology to victims of protests The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has extended the 24-hour curfew that was imposed in all parts of the state earlier in the week till Monday, October 26 to enable security agencies restore law and order in the state as well as guarantee the security of lives and properties of the people. This, he said became necessary in order to forestall unwholesome conduct of some miscreants who capitalised on the ENDSARS protests to perpetrate criminal acts including robbing, killing and destruction of public and private properties. Fayemi disclosed this yesterday while inaugurating members of Ekiti State Judicial Panel of Enquiry into Allegations of Human Rights Violations Against Police Officers, Including SARS Operatives at the Governor’s Office, Ado Ekiti. The governor also announced the establishment of a Victims Compensation Fund to enable speedy payment of monetary compensation to deserving victims. This, according to him would enable the panel respond appropriately to the urgent needs of victims of rights violations. Fayemi, at the brief event, also apologised to victims of the ENDSARS protests in the state and assured the people of the state that his government would continue to take deliberate measures to protect lives and properties. He said his administration would not tolerate criminalisation of young people in the state, adding that thorough investigation into cases of brutalisation of innocent citizens during the course of the protests would also be carried out and promptly acted upon. He said: “In the meantime the existing curfew announced by the state government on Tuesday, October 20, 2020 is further extended until Monday October 26, 2020. “It is important that I emphasised that this curfew is not aimed at abusing the rights of our citizens or make life difficult for the people but to enable government carry out its main responsibility of guaranteeing the security of lives and properties of our citizens.” The inauguration of the Judicial Panel, chaired by a retired Judge, Justice Cornelius Akintayo, according to the governor was the first step by his administration to demonstrate commitment to the concerns of ENDSARS protesters, adding that the panel would avail them the opportunity to speak openly about underlying issues of the agitations.