Former President Goodluck Jonathan has said he has accepted the apology of the son of former President Shehu Shagari, Aminu, who worked against him during the run-up to the 2015 presidential election. Jonathan said this in a Facebook post while acknowledging Aminu’s public apology. The former president said he never took offence and was not the type to harbour grudges. He wrote: “Dear Honourable Aminu Shagari, Thank you for your apology. However, I never took offence. My firm belief is that I am a pencil in the Hand of God. “Therefore, I have no enemies to fight, because of my confidence that people can only do to me what God permits. I urge you to continue to emulate the humility of your father, the late President Shehu Shagari, a most detribalised Nigerian. May God bless you. GEJ.” Aminu, who is a three-term member of the House of Representatives had apologised to Jonathan for supporting the then candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Muhammadu Buhari, who won the 2015 presidential election. This was despite the fact that Buhari had in 1983 toppled the democratically-elected government of Shagari. Aminu, however, apologised to Jonathan following what he described as Buhari’s inability to effectively tackle some of Nigeria’s challenges. He said, “Let me use this opportunity to tender a public apology to former President Jonathan and seek forgiveness because I helped to divide the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP and bring down his government, but, I have found out that what we thought about his stewardship was not entirely true. “I expect President Buhari to also ask for forgiveness having found out that most of the things he accused my dad’s and President Jonathan’s administrations of are not true.” Speaking on the current state of Nigeria, Aminu said “I am very disappointed.” He noted that Nigeria’s only hope is in good governance. “I believe if we get it right in this aspect of our national life, our story would turn from bad to good within a short time. With emphasis, all we require is a credible and sincere leadership that will maximise our God-given talents and resources. A lot of us committed so much to bring this administration on board. As an individual, I assumed that, if nothing else, we would get the issue of security right, and every other thing would follow.”