Human capital development will be a priority for Edo Governor Godwin Obaseki administration in the second term as part of efforts to place the state on a sustainable path of development and economic prosperity. Governor Obaseki will be sworn into office alongside his deputy, Rt. Hon. Philip Shaibu, for another term of four years, on November 12, 2020. Special Adviser to the Governor, on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, in a statement noted that the governor will, in his second term in office, commit more resources to consolidate on achievements recorded in human capital development in the last four years. “The governor’s commitment to human capital development in the state is premised on placing Edo State on a sustainable path of progress and economic prosperity that will create wealth for more Edo people in a post-Covid-19 world,” Osagie said. The governor’s aide added, “In the next four years, Governor Obaseki will consolidate on the achievements recorded in basic education as more teachers are being recruited to teach in rural and remote communities under the Edo Supporting Teachers to Achieve Results (Edo STAR) Teaching Fellowship Programme across the state’s three senatorial districts. “The teachers who will be recruited for the Teaching Fellowship Programme will be trained to deliver quality education using technology in schools. This is expected to expand the scope of Edo Basic Education Sector Transformation (BEST) Programme.” According to Osagie, “In the next four years, the state government’s skills development agency, EdoJobs will also cover more grounds. The agency will mobilise partners to upskill more Edo youths and organise more trainings to exploit opportunities in the digital space, which will prep them for jobs and create solutions to society’s problems using digital tools.” He added that training for different cadre of civil and public servants would run all-year-round at the John Odigie-Oyegun Civil Service Academy to equip them for efficiency and effectiveness in pursuit of the development agenda of Obaseki in his second term. “The Obaseki-led administration will commit more resources to building a highly professional pool of civil servants with zero tolerance for corruption as the administration consolidates on the developmental strides recorded in the first term in office,” Osagie assured.