Francis Sardauna in Katsina The Katsina State Government has renovated Kusada Local Government Police Station and official quarters of the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) set ablaze by rioters at the cost of N34.5 million to enhance security of lives and property of the citizenry in the area. The police station and the quarters of the DPO, including that of his deputy were completely razed down on March 27, 2020 by angry youths who were protesting over the arrest of their religious Leader, Mallam Hassan by police. The Islamic leader was said to have been nabbed by police for leading Friday prayer in the town in spite of the hitherto state government’s directive banning large gatherings to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 pandemic.
Protesters during the clash, killed one person, burnt seven vehicles and 10 motorcycles in custody of police and injured many others who were within the police station premises. Speaking shortly after inspecting the facilities, the state Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Hon. Umar Ya’u, said the police station was renovated to pave the way for improved security and maintenance of law and order in the local government. He said the renovation of the police station and official quarters of the DPO and his deputy, including the fencing of the three facilities gulped N34.5 million.
He reaffirmed that the state government had inaugurated a committee to ascertain the number of vehicles, motorcycles and other property damaged during the rampage for compensation. The commissioner said the government of Aminu Bello Masari had accorded priority to security of lives and property of its citizens and will continue to support security agencies for effective and efficient service delivery. Consequently, he admonished residents of the state, particularly rural dwellers to shun acts capable of truncating government and security personnel’s quest of restoring peace and normalcy in communities facing banditry and other heinous activities.
Meanwhile, the commissioner during the inspection tour, also inspected the ongoing construction of the Palace of the district head of Charanchi, Katsina-Bugaje Bridge and the rehabilitated Modoji Primary School.