by Bennett Oghifo Built to excite, the 2021 Ford Edge and performance-oriented Edge ST add smart new technologies, including a new standard largest-in-class 12-inch size center screen, standard SYNC® 4A with optional Connected Built-in Navigation and cloud connectivity with conversational voice recognition, plus refinements to Edge’s interior and exterior design. “Ford Edge is the choice for tech-savvy customers on the go,” said Angela Cascaden, Edge marketing manager. “It offers standard Ford Co-Pilot360 technologies with driver assist features. And with SYNC 4A with over-the-air updates, customers can get the latest tech and services from Ford at any time – no dealership visit required.” The 12-inch screen supports multi-tasking, enabled by splitting the screen into larger and smaller windows. For example, if a customer wants to keep their navigation route on the screen while changing songs, they can choose to display the radio or other streaming music services in the Adaptive Dash Cards display area. All-new cloud connectivity combines conversational voice recognition with the power of internet-based search results, so you always have access to the latest information with almost every request – such as “Find me the best Thai restaurant” – while SYNC can make data-based suggestions to drivers. Staying in contact with friends and family becomes easier, with natural speech recognition enabling communication via SMS and email. Removing the need to plug-in a mobile device, SYNC 4A includes Wi-Fi enabled Apple CarPlay and Android Auto compatibility and SYNC AppLink. For customers subscribed to SiriusXM® with 360L, the 2021 Edge can also provide a curated listening experience with on-demand streamed content and personalised entertainment channels. To make charging mobile devices easier, the 2021 Ford Edge adds two additional USB ports, one being a USB-C – bringing the total to four – to give backseat passengers easier access to device charging. SYNC 4A offers optional Connected Built-in Navigation for traffic and hazard information, parking, gas prices and weather – all stored in the cloud. And while SYNC 4A leverages the cloud, it will still retain on-board processing power to help minimize performance issues where there might not be strong cell service – meaning your road trip is in good hands even when you go off the beaten path. Finding information about the 2021 Ford Edge will also become easier than ever with SYNC 4A, which includes an all-new digital owner’s manual. Instead of flipping through dozens of pages, the digital owner’s manual includes in-depth information on vehicle features, streamable how-to videos to help you learn, and more – all through a searchable database. Edge was the first Ford SUV to offer Ford Co-Pilot360 as a standard suite of features and continues to offer available advanced driver assist tech including Enhanced Active Park Assist, Evasive Steering Assist, Adaptive Cruise Control with Stop-and-Go and Lane-Centering and a 180-degree front camera. Driver-assist features are supplemental and do not replace safe driving or the driver’s attention, judgment and need to control the vehicle. It does not replace safe driving. See Owner’s Manual for details and limitations. 2021 Edge also features an extensive wheel lineup for increased choice and customization, with nine options including 18-inch Sparkle Silver-painted aluminum wheels standard on the SE series and 21-inch premium gloss black-painted aluminum wheels available on ST. New interior trim options for Edge include a Ceramic interior option on Titanium Elite models and a new Cloth interior option for SEL. New available exterior colors are Carbonized Gray and Lithium Gray. Returning for 2021 is Edge ST-Line for SUV customers who prefer Edge ST’s bold style while prioritizing value over performance. Edge ST-Line features a unique ST-style grille with body-colored bumpers, black ST beltline molding combined with lower sport cladding, standard fog lamps and signature LED lighting. Black roof rack side rails, 20-inch gloss black aluminum wheels and unique Edge ST-Line badging further enhance the look. Edge ST remains the choice for performance-minded customers. Featuring a specially tuned 2.7-liter EcoBoost® pumping out 335 horsepower and 380 lb.-ft. of torque using 93-octane fuel – the first SUV from Ford Performance is outfitted for dynamic handling. It includes a quick-shifting 8-speed automatic transmission, standard all-wheel drive with selectable traction control, an available ST Performance Brake Package, and ST-tuned sport suspension and steering.