By Igbawase Ukumba The military has explained how the second- in- command of the leader of the Benue militia leader, the late Terwase Akwaza AKA Gana, Mr. Kumaor Fachii, was arrested. The Commander of the 4 Special Forces Command of the Military Doma, Major General Gadzama Ali told journalists in Nasarawa that Fachii was arrested in Agbi village in Katsina -Ala LGA of Benue State. Ali, who paraded the suspect, said: “36 days back, the dreaded Gana was paraded here before you people, I mention that some of his kingpins have been arrested. “Some of them are on the run and we are in pursuit of them; this afternoon, the gentleman seated before you is the second -in-command, after the episode that we have with the dreaded Gana, some school of thought were saying that his second in command have inherited all his powers, everything “Lo and behold, our troops have gone in pursuit of them, and today seated before you is Mr. Kumaor Fachii AKA commander, second-in-command of the dreaded Gana that has inherited his magic. “He is the 76th person now that we have, apart from Gana and the other four that have gone to where they belong. “I can assure you that all the Gana gang members will be in our dragnet, so far our men are out there and Fachii has spoken so much about what is obtainable on the ground.” Ali said the suspect was arrested in his girlfriend’s room during a night operation of the troops. But Fachii told reporters he was not the second- in- command of Gana’s gang but the second- in -command of one among the groups Gana was operating. “My name is Kumaor Fachii, I started in 2018 with Gana; before then, I was an ‘Okada’ man before I joined them in the bush. I used to collect money from Takum road from passengers and other road users and we return all the money to Gana. “Gana attached me with a group and the group carried arms; it is the group that appointed me second commander of the group, but Gana did not hand over his powers and magic to me. “He handed over all his powers and magic to Azonto, his younger brother who is still in the bush.” Items reportedly recovered from Fachii include arms and ammunition, three locally made rocket launchers, military uniforms and charms among others.