By Emmanuel Addeh The acting Managing Director of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), Mr. Sule Abdulaziz, has emerged the new chairman of the The West African Power Pool (WAPP), executive board. A statement in Abuja by General Manager, Public Affairs of the company, Mrs. Ndidi Mbah, noted that the appointment was made during the 46th meeting of the WAPP executive board chaired by the Secretary General, Mr. Siengui Apollinaire Ki which held via a video conference. It noted that Abdulaziz was nominated by the former MD/CEO of Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) Mr. Joe Makoju, who is an honourary member of WAPP. “While making the nomination, Makoju noted that Abdulaziz is an expert in engineering with vast experience in the electricity sector, and therefore would perform creditably as the new WAPP Executive Board Chairman. His proposal was endorsed by MDs and DGs of other members of the board”, the statement said. In his acceptance speech, Abdulaziz, thanked the board members and the honorary member of the executive board for his nomination as the chairman of the board, and assured them of his total commitment to the overall objective of the regional electricity body. He expressed the need to move the pool to the next level of operational efficiency and solicited the support of member utilities, especially members of the executive board in that regard. “He equally encouraged all WAPP member utilities to continue to collaborate actively with the secretariat to ensure effective and efficient coordination and implementation of the all WAPP programmes,” the company said. It also quoted Abdulaziz as urging members to ensure prompt payment of their contributions to the pool, informing the meeting that TCN’s contribution will be remitted very soon as President Muhammadu Buhari, has approved the payment of TCN’s contribution. WAPP was created in 1999 during the 22nd summit of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Authority of Heads of State and Government and was adopted during the 29th summit of the body held in Niamey.