Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi No fewer than 10,000 members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), and the New Nigerian Peoples Party(NNPP) yesterday decamped to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bauchi State in the buildup to the October 17, 2020, local government election in the state. THISDAY learnt that the APC defectors, who were received by the state Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, at the closing ceremony of the campaign rally for PDP candidates in the forthcoming local council elections in the state held at Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida Square in Bauchi yesterday, also handed over their APC membership cards, brooms and posters, and replaced them with that of the PDP. The governor, who welcomed them to the ruling PDP, solicited for votes to all the PDP candidates in the forthcoming council elections scheduled for October 17. He reaffirmed the determination of his administration to open up the state for massive transformation in critical sectors of the state economy. Mohammed, who recalled that his administration had inherited a lot of challenges facing critical sectors of the economy, said so far, the administration has succeeded in tackling major challenges. He announced his readiness to do more as well as perform better than before in order to deliver on his campaign promises of overcoming the challenges militating against the progress and development of the state. “We are very grateful to Almighty Allah and to all the people of Bauchi State for giving us the opportunity; we welcome all of you who are coming to our party in your number, and we will be with you as our brothers. “Today, the defectors have realised that we have done so much, and we are ready to do more and perform better than before,” he stated. The state PDP Chairman, Alhaji Hamza Koshe Akuyam, had earlier noted with satisfaction, the massive participation of supporters at the campaign rally, and attributed it to the outstanding performance of Governor Mohammed. In his remark, Senator Abdul Ahmed Ningi said with the performance of the governor, PDP will emerge victorious in the local government elections, and described the conduct of the election as a welcome development and historic. Speaking on behalf of the defectors, Dr. Sama’ila Dahuwa said they have decided to decamp to the PDP because of the exemplary leadership of the state governor, and pledged their loyalty and support to the party.