Though the Big Brother Naija Season 5 Lockdown Edition, 2020, climaxed late last month, it remains cheery to know that some of the lucky housemates are still redeeming their prizes.
One of such prizes was presented when Guinness Nigeria, Gold sponsor of the just concluded reality TV, hosted the winner of the show, Laycon and other BBNaija Housemates days ago.
The exclusive event took place in a convivial atmosphere in Lagos where guests were treated to a carefully curated dinner, paired beautifully with the distinctive blends of The House Of Guinness, including Guinness Smooth, Johnnie Walker, Cîroc and Orijin.
Leveraging on its strength as the first and only total beverage alcohol in Nigeria, Guinness Nigeria earlier this year partnered Africa most-watched reality TV show, Big Brother, to further demonstrate a commitment to refreshing, entertaining and impacting lives. As Gold sponsor on the Lockdown season, the brand redefined housemate task and BBN Saturday parties with captivating, educative and entertaining experiences for both housemates and viewers.
Guinness Nigeria officially awarded a cash prize of one million naira to Team Hops for the Guinness Smooth Tribe photography challenge and two million naira to Team Barley games session from the Guinness Smooth Hunt task. Team Barley (Kiddwaya, Brighto, TrickyTee, Lucy, Erica, Vee, Kaisha and Laycon) also won a share of one million naira from Guinness as The Voters Choice Winner for the #SmoothChallenge.
An all-expense-paid trip and a sum of one million naira was awarded to each team member of Team Gold Label for winning the Johnnie Walker Wager, ahead of Team Red Label, White Walker and Black Label respectively.
To crown the long list of awards, the overall BBNaija winner, Olamilekan ‘Laycon’ Agbeleshe, and the first runner-up, Dorathy Bachor, were rewarded with a trip to Dublin, Ireland, to witness the greatness of Guinness.
Speaking about the Prize presentation, the Marketing Director, Guinness Nigeria, Adenike Adebola said, “For nearly 7 decades, Guinness Nigeria has not only produced high-quality products, we’ve also modelled our diverse range of drinks to consistently refresh and celebrate Nigerians. The Big Brother Nigeria lockdown season was another fitting opportunity to further fulfil that purpose while also gifting viewers a sense of communion through our exciting initiatives on the show.
Likewise, the BBN participants all became brand advocates through our well curated activations; driving relevant branded conversations and making our brands the most talked about across the respective categories. The House of Guinness is proud of all the winning team from each experience. We are excited to reward them tonight and we look forward to watching them unravel our illustrious history in different capacities, as they take another step on their journey on greatness.”
Managing Director, Guinness Nigeria, Baker Magunda commenting on the success of the collaboration added, “Every year, we strive to increase our positive social impact by delivering transformational social investments and this year has been no exception.
“Despite the limitations that came the year, we are proud of the progress we made and the undeniable success of this sponsorship deal.
“We look forward to future exciting partnerships, initiatives and investments to increase our quota to the social-economic growth of this nation.”