•Asks FG to recruit unemployed youths into security agencies Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday disclosed that it would not discriminate against any person that may want to contest presidential election on its platform in 2023 including former Vice President Atiku Abubakar.
The main opposition party also asked President Muhammadu Buhari to recruit unemployed youths across the federation into security agencies as a strategy to address criminality and insecurity. The PDP National Chairman, Mr. Uche Secondus, and Chairman of PDP Governors Forum, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal, made these remarks after a two-hour meeting held at Ramat House, Bauchi, yesterday.
Apart from Secondus and Tambuwal, PDP Deputy National Chairman (North), Senator Nazif Gamawa and a former President of the Senate, Senator David Mark, among others, also attended the meeting. After the meeting, while responding to a question on whether the party would re-present Abubakar who lost the 2019 presidential election to President Muhammadu Buhari, Secondus noted that the party’s floor would be open for any aspirant willing to contest for the presidential election in 2023.
Secondus promised to provide level-playing ground for all the party members, describing PDP as very democratic party that is all accommodating. He said: “There is no room for discrimination. Everyone is qualified, both young, old, governors, non-governors are qualified to contest and we have the space for everyone; if you win, you become our candidate. The door is open to everybody.” Speaking on the performance of Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, Secondus described him as an invaluable asset to the main opposition party, citing his enviable achievement in a short period of time.
Also after the meeting yesterday, Tambuwal lamented the high level of insecurity, including banditry in the North-west, emphasising the need “to employ more personnel in the army, police, civil defence and other security agencies.”
He, therefore, asked the president to, as a matter of urgency, consider employing productive youth into the security organisations to meet with the security needs of the country. “Nigeria is under policed. In view of this, the federal government should employ competent and qualified unemployed youths into the security agencies in the country.
“We know that Nigeria is under policed and there is the need for more hands. I know that we are doing more on community policing but that is not enough.” “We have many unemployed youths, who are patriotic, competent and qualified and can be enlisted in the security apparatus that we have in Nigeria like the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Air Force, Nigeria Police, Department of State Services (DSS) and all other agencies.
“We need Army, police, civil defence in the fight against banditry, kidnapping and insurgency facing Nigeria today,” the Sokoto governor explained. He urged the government to seriously consider employing those who are competent and qualified because we know that Nigeria is under-policed and there is the need for more hands. I know that we are doing more on community policing, but that is not enough.” He appealed to the President to ensure that security operatives on the front line of fight insurgents and bandits, among others, get their entitlements and other welfare packages with a view to boosting their morale.
He, also, challenged the president to deploy ICT equipment to be made available to the men in the forefront of the fight against insurgency, banditry, kidnapping and other crimes.” Also, the governor called on the President to deploy information communications technology (ICT) in the fight against insecurity in the country.
Also speaking, the Deputy National Chairman North of PDP, Senator Sulaiman Nazif Gamawa, used the medium to acknowledge the commitment of Governor Bala Mohammed towards the overall development of the state. Although they did not disclose the reason for the recent visits and consultations around the country, it might not be unconnected with the 2023 politics on how the party can get back to winning ways particularly at the presidency having lost out of power for eight years.