In a bid to increase financial literacy amongst the younger generation, Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, disclosed that it recently held virtual sessions to educate preteens and teenagers on how to develop a savings and investment culture. Through its New School Money Initiative, the organisation aims to improve and deepen the financial knowledge of Nigerian children. This year’s event which was held virtually, is the fourth in its series and was the theme: “The Art of Money: Earn, Save and Invest.” Representatives from Stanbic IBTC shed more light on subjects to distinguish between wants and needs, assets and liabilities as well as the importance of making the right financial decisions. These were communicated using simple relatable videos and illustrations. The wealth certified professionals demonstrated different ways of achieving financial goals and meeting unexpected needs such as emergency savings, budgeting and investing, amongst others. A total of 703 participants attended the sessions in the three age categories. 53 wealth facilitators selected across the group from various regions of operations also delivered to the exciting sessions cut across 18 virtual classrooms. Interactions recorded through the sessions were a total of 2,166 comments. The Zonal Head, Micro Pension and Agency, Stanbic IBTC Pensions Managers, Obinna Lewis-Asonye, who anchored one of the sessions, emphasised that earning money was the first step towards financial freedom, followed by budgeting and investing. He stressed that participants should inculcate a savings plan to enable them to keep their money safe while it grows with interest. He said: “To get more money, you must limit your withdrawal so that your interest can grow.” Other representatives of Stanbic IBTC emphasised the need to cultivate the habit of saving and investing as a guarantee towards becoming financially independent. According to them, it is important to consider the kind of investments that suits your needs, be it long, medium, or short time. They added that a better future is assured by investing in government bonds, treasury bills, mutual funds and commercial papers, amongst others. The hosts described the initiative as essential in imparting financial education in the younger generation while strengthening their financial management skills and enhancing their understanding of financial matters. They further encouraged Nigerian children to engage in meaningful ventures to generate income as a first step towards making money. 150 winners emerged across the sessions from the various tasks which were completed and were all awarded with Stanbic IBTC Mutual Funds as prizes. Speaking on the continuity of the initiative, Head, Marketing and Communications, Stanbic IBTC Holdings, Bridget Oyefeso-Odusami, said the session would be an annual event as part of the organisation’s goal to continually increase the number of financial literate individuals across the country. Oyefeso-Odusami highlighted the importance of the initiative, noting that financial literacy should begin from an early stage for easy attainment of financial freedom. She emphasised the importance of the customers’ journey with respect to the offerings of the organisation being an end-to-end financial services provider. “One way to build a well-rounded adult is to catch them young. If we can inculcate financial literacy and investment culture into these young ones, we know that we will have financially enlightened adults tomorrow. At Stanbic IBTC, we want a future filled with smart, intelligent and financially enlightened leaders, hence we took this initiative,” she added.