By James Sowole The Ondo State Deputy Governor, Mr. Agboola Ajayi, yesterday denied reports that he was planning to resign from Governor Rotimi Akeredolu’s administration. Ajayi said some newspapers reported that he was planning to tender his resignation letter this week, describing such reports as falsehood and a figment of the imagination of the writers. In a statement issued by his media adviser, Mr. Allen Sowore, the deputy governor alleged that the reports of his planned resignation were sponsored by the governor and his aides. The statement, which was titled: ‘Ondo State Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, will not resign,’ read in part, “ The deputy governor was elected together with Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu by the good people of Ondo State in 2016. That four years’ mandate given to both men will not end until February 23, 2021. “The news of his impending resignation is being sponsored by the governor through the propaganda machinery and machinations of Ondo State Ministry of Information as a subterfuge in preparation for a macabre plan to put the deputy governor’s forged signature on a prepared resignation letter. “The general public should be wary of these latest antics and desperation of the governor to remove his deputy by all means and at any cost illegally. “The people of Ondo State, who voted for Agboola Ajayi as deputy governor in 2016, have not asked him to resign or quit the government. Therefore, he has no reason whatsoever to relinquish the people’s mandate, which of course is limited by term/time, democratically bestowed upon him. However, the state Commissioner for Information, Mr Donald Ojogo, said the governor knew nothing about the alleged publication of Ajayi’s planned resignation. Ojogo said, “Ordinarily, it should be the height of insensitivity to dissipate energy on whatever the ZLP candidate may have said in respect of the above subject matter. “Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), will rather deepen efforts as regards the current national concern of youths protests. “This is not the first time he would unveil untruths, not only about others, but about himself too. Forgery cannot, and has never been part of this government. The signature of anyone is too insignificant to be forged