When she lost her husband, Olaseni Omotade, who was a Federal Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Industries and Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, in the ill-fated Belview Airlines flight on October 22, 2005, her world came crashing. For years, the Abuja businesswoman was almost inconsolable. But about 15 years after the death of her late husband, Omotade once again gave marriage a second shot when she walked down the aisle with the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu.
At the colourful occasion, which was graced by family members, friends and well-wishers at her Banana Island, Lagos home on Saturday, Shina Peters, a legendary juju musician, entertained the guests to the admiration of all. The highly connected businesswoman and socialite, who clocked 57 last July, has been in the corridors of power in Abuja since the late Gen. Sani Abacha days as Head of State.
The Ogun State-born socialite has investments in oil and gas as well as banking and manufacturing. She is also a regular face at Aso Rock Presidential Villa. It will be recalled that shortly after the death of her former husband, the mother of three ( Oyinkansola, Taiwo and Kehinde Ayooluwa Omotade) began to have a running battle with her husband’s other wife, Grace Omotade, who also had three children for their late husband namely, Oluwafumilayo, Oluwaseun and Onikepo. Grace claimed she was the only wife of the deceased, but packed out of her matrimonial home in annoyance when her late husband, in his prime, brought in Folasade whom she viewed as his mistress.
However, Society Watch gathered that as of the time Olaseni died, Folasade, who was the only woman then in the house, allegedly cornered all the properties and embarked on asset stripping, disposing all the properties and assets of the late Olaseni without the knowledge of Grace. The bubble, however, burst when she attempted to dispose of the family property at 5A and 5B, Kayode Alli Street, Omole Phase I, Ikeja, Lagos. Grace got a hint of the development and approached the court via a Suit No: ID/183M/2006 seeking an order restraining and preventing Folasade and her agents from selling, disposing of and or leasing the property at Omole Phase I and an order directing and or mandating the registrar of the court and or the Deputy Sheriff to put the property under lock and key and deposit same with the court pending the determination of the case. The order was granted by Justice Williams Dawodu on July 10, 2006, wherein the judge ordered that parties would maintain the status quo pending the determination of the interlocutory application. But Folashade allegedly went ahead to sell the said property in defiance of the court order for N55 million to Mr. Raphael Adeyemi and Mrs. Abimbola Aina, prompting the claimant to institute contempt of court proceedings against her. In a swift reaction, the multimillionaire oil and gas magnate argued that the house belonged to her and that she purchased it at the sum of N60m. She said Grace was a concubine and faulted her claim that she was Omotade’s only wife, challenging her to produce legal proof of the marriage.