Goddy Egene
The Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Mrs. Noimot Salako-Oyedele, has called on successful women in politics to sponsor and raise young women as part of efforts to build a better nation.
She spoke at a webinar organised by the Emerging Africa Capacity Building, an arm of Emerging Africa, an African Investment banking group, with the theme: “Women Who Lead 2.0–The role of women in governance and nation-building.” The event was designed for African women leaders with distinguished records in governance and leadership at the highest level to mentor the next generation of leaders, sharing their personal leadership journey, challenges surmounted, and lessons learned, sharing specific tips for women seeking governance and leadership positions especially in the public sector. Delivering the keynote address, she shared some important tips such as the need for female candidates to combine electability and competence, to be articulate, and to demonstrate their ability to aid their parties in winning elections. Also speaking, Nigeria’s first female Minister of Industry and Group Chairman, Emerging Africa, Mrs. Nike Akande, said it was worthy of note women have lately been occupying top positions of responsibilities domestically, continentally, andglobally and have brought enormous value to both corporate and political governance.
“While there are clear economic and social advantages to having more women in the corporate and political governance levels, we still must contend with issues of culture and traditions. “Therefore, there is a need for a complete reorientation to reduce discriminatory practices in society. As reports have shown, investing in women has a distinct multiplier effect on a society. When women are empowered, they are able to provide better lives for their children, they are able to contribute to the national economy; and they are better able to stand beside men to solve the long-standing problems of our time,” Akande said. The host and Group CEO, Emerging Africa Capital Group, Mrs. Toyin Sanni, spoke on the imperative of funding access for women to pursue elective positions and on the need for Nigerian women to adopt globally successful models and technology to achieve this objective. She also emphasised how the involvement of more women in leadership and governance would help to bridge current gaps between leaders and the governed, particularly the youths which make up the majority of our population.
Other speakers at the event were the President/GCEO, Transcorp Nigeria Plc, Ms. Owen Omogiafo; General Manager, Legal and Regulatory Commission Secretary, National Identity Management Commission, Hajia Hadiza Ali – Dagabana; Chairman, Africa Prudential Plc and Chief (Mrs) Eniola Fadayomi.