2.25AM Jegede Wins Akure South LG Candidate of the PDP in Ondo State governorship election, Mr. Eyitayo Jegede, has won the election in Akure South Local Government. Below are the results of the three leading political parties in the election. APC  17,277 PDP  47,627 2.15AM Akeredolu Wins Akoko South East LG Candidate of the APC in Ondo State governorship election, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, has won the election in Akoko South East Local Government. Below are the results of the three leading political parties in the election. APC  9,419 PDP  4,003 1.55AM Akeredolu Wins Idanre  LG Candidate of the APC in Ondo State governorship election, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, has won the election in Idanre Local Government. Below are the results of the three leading political parties in the election. APC 11,286 PDP  7,499 1.45AM Candidate of the PDP in Ondo State governorship election, Mr. Eyitayo Jegede, has won the election in Akure North Local Government. Below are the results of the three leading political parties in the election. APC  9,546 PDP  12,263 1.36AM Akeredolu Wins Owo LG Candidate of the APC in Ondo State governorship election, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, has won the election in Owo Local Government. Below are the results of the three leading political parties in the election. APC 35,957 PDP  5,311 1.30AM Akeredolu Wins Ondo East LG Candidate of the APC in Ondo State governorship election, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, has won the election in Ondo East Local Government. Below are the results of the three leading political parties in the election. APC 6,485 PDP  4,049 1.25AM Akeredolu Wins Akoko Northwest LG Candidate of the APC in Ondo State governorship election, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, has won the election in Akoko Northwest Local Government. Below are the results of the three leading political parties in the election. APC 15,809 PDP  10,320 1.17AM Akeredolu Wins Akoko Southwest LG Candidate of the APC in Ondo State governorship election, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, has won the election in Akoko Southwest Local Government. Below are the results of the three leading political parties in the election. APC  21,232 PDP  15,055 1.10AM Akeredolu Wins Akoko Northeast LG Candidate of the APC in Ondo State governorship election, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, has won the election inAkoko Northeast Local Government. Below are the result of the three leading political parties in the election. APC 16,572 PDP  8,380 12.55AM Akeredolu Wins Irele LG Candidate of the APC in Ondo State governorship election, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, has won the election in Irele Local Government APC 12,643 PDP 5,493 12.56AM Akeredolu Wins Ile-Oluji/Oke-Igbo LG APC 13,278 PDP 9,231 12:49AM PDP Wins Ifedore LG APC 9,350 PDP 11,852  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is set to begin the final collection of the Ondo State governorship election result. The results of the election held on Saturday had been collated at the various ward level while the local government collation of results is set to begin at the state collection centre 3.40PM  James Sowole in Akure  Police have arrested two persons in Akure, the Ondo State capital for allegedly stabbing an unidentified man.  The Deputy Commissioner of Police, Investigation, Lanre Bankole, confirmed the incident.  It was gathered that the incident occurred at Ward 4, Polling Unit 002 in the Ijomu part of the Akure South Local Government Area.  Bankole said the victim had been rushed to a hospital for treatment.  There is a bit of chaos and unruly behaviour at Arogbo Ward 1 Unit 6. The youths refused to be persuaded to allow the elderly, pregnant women and nursing mothers the privilege to vote first 10.40AM ZLP candidate Agboola Alffed Ajayi in his country home in Kiribo in Ese Odo local government area denying rumours that he stepped down from the Ondo state governorship contest 7:17AM Difficulties in Transportation May Mar Voting in Riverine Ondo By Nseobong Okon-Ekong Security personnel including policemen and members of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps are finding it difficult to commute to their different destinations in the riverine region of Ese Odo and Ilaje local government areas of Ondo State to carry assigned duties in the governorship election.
These are the two local government areas that have conferred on Ondo State the distinction of belonging to states services by Niger Delta Development Commission. As a result of the paucity in transportation, commercial motorcycle operators hiked the fare. A journey between Ajagba and Kiribo, which is the town of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) candidate, for instance, which normally cost between N100 and 150, attracted N300.
This development may hinder or discourage many voters from casting a ballot for their preferred governorship candidate. At Ajagba in Irele local government area, which is the hub for communities Agadagba, Arogbo, Kiribo and Igbekedo, voters and security personnel who had set out as early 5:00am to beat the restriction in movement were still stranded about one after, while making frantic efforts to reach their destination. Ajagba and the surrounding communities have been cut off from the national electricity power grid for over 15 years. This factor has influenced the resolve of the voting population to go all out to vote for a governorship candidate they believe can end the years of darkness