Ibrahim Oyewale in Lokoja No fewer than three persons have been killed by gunmen in Okofi community, Kogi Local Government Area of Kogi State following a renewed hostilities between two communities in the area. THISDAY gathered that the attack was said to have been carried out early in the morning yesterday when the worshippers were observing their prayers in the Mosque. Sources further disclosed that many people, including the Chief Imam of Okofi were feared killed in the early morning attack which was speculated to have been a reprisal from the rival community. There has been a running battle between the Bassa and the Ebira communities, with a militia group of one of the tribes being fingered for this attack. It would be recalled that about seven persons were killed while several others injured by unidentified gunmen along kpareke- Agbudu- Agaga road in the same LGA few days ago The gunmen along Okpareke- Agbudu road were said to have ambushed a vehicle conveying some Bassa indigenes who were returning from Lokoja market. THISDAY learnt that the Government Girls Secondary School located in Kotonkarfe has been closed down to ensure safety of staff and students. Those who sustained injuries were rushed to Lokoja specialist hospital, while, security personnel have been drafted to the area. Meanwhile, the Kogi State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP William Ovye Aya confirmed the attack to journalists yesterday. “The Commissioner of Police, Edeh Ayuba has directed the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) to move to the area where the sad incident occurred to avert further breakdown of law and order. We are yet to get information on the number of people that were killed. “We don’t know those behind the attack but the CP has directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Investigations to commence investigation on the attack and to ensure that the Police unravel those behind the attack,” he said. He also confirmed that about seven persons were killed and several others injured by gunmen along kpareke- Agbudu- Agaga road.