By Onyebuchi Ezigbo The Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Polytechnics (SSANIP) has stated that its members may be forced to review their registration with the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) if after 21 days, the federal government failed to address issues raised over its implementation. They also expressed their displeasure at the way and manner the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) has handled the scheme of service so far.It condemned the decision of the Board to review the scheme of service without due consultation with relevant stakeholders The association said an attempt to foist a scheme of service document on SSANIP without their input is unacceptable, and therefore, would be an invitation to an atmosphere of industrial disharmony. In a communique issued at the end of an emergency meeting held yesterday, the association observed that there has been disjointed implementation of salary in the polytechnic since Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) commenced the payment of salaries for staff since February 2020. The National President of SSANIP, Phillip Ogunsipe, who read the communiqué, listed some of the issues associated with IPPIS to include “non-release of new minimum wage arrears; inconsistencies in the release of third party deductions; non-payment of COVID-19 hazard allowance for health workers; high draconian tax regime on consolidated salary; delay in the release of 2018 and 2019 promotion arrears, among others.” According to him, the association “wishes to call on the relevant agencies of government to expedite actions toward resolving these highlighted challenges. “Equally, the council wish to frankly state that failure of the IPPIS to address these highlighted challenges within 21 days from the date of this communique would leave the union with no other option than to review its stance on IPPIS.” On the re-negotiation of 2010 agreement, the association noted with dismay what it described as the nonchalant attitude of the government to continue with the renegotiation of the 2010 agreement which is long overdue. It called on the federal government to expedite action on the re-constitution of Governing Councils for the Federal Polytechnics. The union further frowned at the inadequacy and delay in the release of over-head costs to Federal Polytechnics by the federal government. In similar vein, the council observed that the short-coming has the potential of impairing the day-to-day running of the institutions. The council, therefore, wishes to impress it upon the relevant agencies of the government to ensure that the running costs are adequate and promptly released to the institutions. In addition, the union frowned at the forceful retirement of the acting Registrar of the Federal Polytechnic, Ekowe, Bayelsa State, by the management of the institution against the agreement reached with the Federal Ministry of Education, NBTE and Governing Council. It said the forceful retirement of Abadani Woyingikuro was against the provisions of the relevant documents guiding the operation of the polytechnic system in Nigeria, and therefore, resolved that the management of the polytechnic should revert to the earlier agreement reached on the matter without further delay, failure, which SSANIP would not be able to guarantee industrial harmony in the institution.