By Rebecca Ejifoma In its continuous celebration of Nigeria’s 60th independence anniversary, the MD/CEO, LAGFERRY, Abodoulbaq Balogun, has assured Lagosians of safety on the waterways. While hosting 60 boat passengers to a cruise at the
60th Lagferry Cruise at the Five Cowries Terminal Falomo, Ikoyi, the MD said this exercise was to give Lagos the possibility of what can happen on the waterways. “It is a Great Lagos Independence Cruise and we are coming on water to celebrate the 60th anniversary of Nigeria the Lagos way. No state in Nigeria can be like Lagos. We have the water. We have the people,” he expressed. Part of their aim was to showcase the hospitality, the tourism and the potential of what water can do for the nation’s economy. “We want people to come onboard and enjoy themselves, have fun, eat good food and dance to a lot of music then network. Unfortunately, this edition is limited by COVID-19,” he added. For the 60 lucky winners of the raffle draw tickets, Lagferry gave them a treat from Five Cowries Terminal to Mekwem, Lekki, River Omu Epe then returned to the Five Cowries Terminal at Falomo. Balogun enthused: “We just want Lagosians to feel the 60th independence the Lagos way, the Lagferry way. We are doing this to enable our tourism and tell the people some of the activities that can be done onboard and on our waterways. Social events, wedding reception, meetings, parties and more.” On the safety of Lagos waterways, the MD noted that they are doing things according to world-class standard established for the maritime industry. He emphasised that the waterway transportation had never been this before. “With the appreciation of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu we have seen a lot of transformation in the sector”. Speaking also, the Head of Admin and HR Lagos Ferry Service (Lagferry), Akinyemi Olajuwon said “we have come this far but regardless of the challenges, we just look back and say we are better than some countries, notable countries that we can mention. “We are going to do a cruise with our batch that can sit about 250 persons but because of the COVID-19 protocol we reduced it as much as possible so as to adhere to NCDC and Lagos State protocols of COVID-19. “It is basically for people to keep fit with us, for people to enjoy and believe that the waterways is secure and is safe. It is the next phase of transportation in Lagos state that’s all.” On the appropriate time for Lagosians to use the waterways, Olajunwo highlighted, “Basically we open our waterways 6am and close at 6pm in the evening. That is the regulation. That is the standard regulation for security.” From Thursday October 1, Lagferry slashed fare by 60 per cent for passengers that have been riding with us. “The Independence cruise and fare discount is all in an effort to encourage Lagosians to patronise water transportation to their respective places in the state,” he added. Participants had a swell time. There was everything a gathering needed to be fun-eating, drinking, dancing, and games with the national flag.