 By Bennett Oghifo Aiming to redefine the segment, the fourth generation Toyota Sienna reimagines the minivan to support a wider array of life stages and activities. With a standard hybrid powertrain across all trims and an array of new tech and amenities, the 2021 Toyota Sienna raises the bar for style, safety, comfort, versatility and fuel efficiency in its segment. Designed, engineered and assembled in the U.S., the all-hybrid 2021 Sienna, influenced by the bold and robust character of SUVs, hosts many premium features: kick-open and closed sliding side doors and rear gate, four-zone climate control system, heated second-row super-long slide captain’s chairs with ottomans, power tilt and telescoping steering column with heated steering wheel, a digital rear-view mirror, 10-in. color head-up display and 12-speaker JBL® Premium Audio system. The 2021 Toyota Sienna is also ready for life’s outdoor adventures with its all-wheel drive option – and is well-positioned for Yakima® accessories, such as a rooftop carrier, cross bars, bike rack and more. The Sienna will also offer an available tow hitch and factory optional 1,500-watt inverter with 120V AC outlet to power camping equipment. What’s more, all versions of the 2021 Sienna are rated to tow up to 3,500 pounds. That’s enough to pull a well-equipped compact travel trailer, or simply carry your bikes for that weekend getaway. Sienna: All-New from the Foundation Up The fourth-gen Sienna, designed by the combined effort of CALTY’s Newport Beach, CA and Ann Arbor, MI studios, delivers a combination of room, comfort, convenience, fuel efficiency and versatility. Starting with an all new minivan structure based on the TNGA-K Platform, the goal was to optimize everything that is great about minivan function, while wrapping it all into a bold, sexy, and provocative design, expanding the definition of what a next generation minivan should be. “This is an all-new vehicle from the ground up, including a new chassis platform as well as a new electrical platform,” said Chief Engineer Monte Kaehr. “The development of the fourth generation Sienna was a huge undertaking but we always worked towards one single mission—to make the best van yet.” This bold and innovative approach enabled the design team to create strong and robust proportions with a shoulder-themed body design, and muscular wheel flares that express athleticism. The body surface is boldly sculpted, a fresh departure from the typical, boxy minivan driving on the roads today. The front design was inspired by the iconic Shinkansen Japanese Bullet Train to appear sleek, speedy and confident. The headlights are mounted high and stretched around to the sides as if they are being shaped by the wind. The bold lower grille is contrasted by slim, high tech LED fog lights that are pushed to the corners, enhancing the wide and stable stance. In the spirit of optimising interior roominess while avoiding a boxy design, the rear cabin features a speedy pillar that is dynamically angled forward. The taillight flows seamlessly from the sculpted body to the rear, using thin bands of LED lighting to create a signature impression. There is an integrated black taillight canard that not only looks cool, but also improves aerodynamic performance. The crisp, deeply sculpted tailgate with an integrated spoiler is made possible by a molded resin process. The ultra-sporty XSE model amps up the excitement, sportiness and driving experience to a level never before seen in minivans. With dark 20” split 5 spoke wheels and aggressive front and rear bumpers that are unique to XSE, this model looks like it was born on a racetrack. Bold Design Meets Spacious Interior Toyota called the third-generation Sienna a “swagger wagon,” but the 2021 model takes it to a whole new level. Learning from today’s minivan customers that they do not want to feel like they are driving a bus, the design team took this to heart and thought carefully about how to combine the practical attributes of a minivan with the emotional desire for having a more personalised driving experience. The key terms used to redefine the minivan experience were Confidence, Refinement, and Smart innovation. With this in mind, a modern instrument panel was created of bold, horizontal layers to express a wide and spacious interior, with a large center touch display, handy storage capability, and the innovative Bridge Console, which is the key to allocating personalised space to the driver and front passenger. The Bridge Console is an innovative solution that is a departure from common minivan layouts. The bridge is ergonomically positioned high between the driver and passenger for ease of use, and elegantly connects the instrument panel to the center armrest. This unique feature enables the driver to have a more stress-free and comfortable driving experience. The shifter and necessary functions are all within easy reach, along with cup holders, available wireless charger, and ample storage bins for smaller items. Beneath the bridge is a large open area for convenient storage of larger personal items such as a purse or bag.