Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo The Director General of the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), Dr. Nasir Argungu has emphasised the need for unemployed persons, especially, youths to explore job opportunities in the agric sector, because of its value chain, in order to grow the nation’s economy. The NDE boss stated this in Osogbo, while speaking through the NDE Osun State coordinator, Mallam Ismail Yekeen, at the commencement of the 3 months intensive training organised by NDE Rural Employment Promotion (REP) Department for 100 participants under the NDE Sustainable Agric Development Training Scheme (SADTS 2020). According to him, the issue of unemployment could be reduced to the barest minimum, if enormous resources of unemployed youths could be deployed into agriculture and other agro allied productive ventures. He enjoined the selected participants to accord agric development, a pride of place in their consciousness, saying that agric business is a serious business. He expressed NDE’s readiness to continue to provide succour to all unemployed persons, through its various employment generation programmes and activities. The NDE DG disclosed that through the directorate’s efforts and in collaboration with both national and international agencies, the NDE has been able to effectively address the scourge of joblessness among unemployed persons. Also speaking at the occasion, the head of the Department of REP, Mrs Toyin Adesina, advised the participants to be committed to the training as all areas of agriculture will be covered, both theoretically and practically. Adesina stated further, that the training would run for three months during which the participants would be attached to established private or public farm enterprises for them to acquire requisite knowledge in any area of agriculture they would like to venture into. She disclosed that the participants could be further assisted, after the completion of the training by way of provision of starter pack, in cash or kind. NCAC DG, Runsewe Loses Mum Nigeria’s cultural icon and Director-General of the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe, has announced the transition of his mother, Mrs. Felicia Adesola Runsewe (Nee Adesmosun), aged 94 years. Late Felicia Runsewe fondly called Mama Kaduna, lived and worked in Kaduna State as a prosperous business woman for about 60 years, before retiring to live in Lagos where she passed on in the early hours of Saturday, October 17, 2020. Mama Kaduna started her career with Kingsway Stores, Kaduna, before going into private business which endeared her to clients and neighbours, hence the name Mama Kaduna. She is survived by three children, Ojafolarin Runsewe (deceased), Otunba Segun Runsewe and Mrs. Mopelola Ayanfalu, grandchildren and a great grand child. Date for the interment will be announced soon.