By Emmanuel Addeh The Governor of Kano state, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje has expressed delight over the progress so far made on the Kano Economic City project being built by Brains and Hammers, a property and building company in the country. Speaking when Brains and Hammers’ Executive Director, Kano Economic City, Mallam Ibrahim Bako briefed the State Executive Council (SEC) on the status of the project, the governor said he was delighted with the work done on the economic city by the team. A statement by the company’s Head, Strategic Communications, Mr. Onome Okwah, quoted Ganduje as saying that efforts to fast-track the project was in tandem with his administration’s resolve to lift the state in terms of infrastructure. He lauded the commitment shown in the timely delivery of the almost completed phase one of the pharmaceutical and information technology hub section of the economic city, stressing that it attests to the focused leadership of the organisation. “Just as we are all aware, that Brains and Hammers is at the forefront of this one-of-a-kind economic city project currently being developed in Kano state. This project is a testament to the state government’s resolve to harness the economic potential of the state for the good of all residents and visitors to the state. “We are also proud to have Jaiz Bank as our financial partner on this project. My government’s resolve to make Kano state an African regional economic hub is supported by the development expertise of indigenous organisations like Brains and Hammers. When completed, this project would cover all spectrums of our economic life. “From pharmaceutical distribution units to information technology hub, trailer parks for trucks and luxury buses, low-cost hotels for transit commuters and visitors, regional fruit market complete with refrigeration facilities, banks, and office complex. It would be a one-stop shop for your economic activities,” he stated. In his remarks, Bako said the Kano state government’s support was a major motivating factor driving the team towards the finish line on the project. He said: “We are working tirelessly to complete phase one of the project in the next two months. This phase would include about 1000 shops in the pharmaceutical shops and about 3000 shops dedicated to information technology activities in the tech hub of the economic city. “We are determined to make these facilities ready for commissioning before the end of the year. As an organisation, we would not be here today without the support of Jaiz Bank. “Our partnership with Jaiz Bank would enable potential shop owners who can’t afford the capital investment needed for the outright purchase of a shop to secure one with an initial 10 percent capital deposit through Jaiz Bank. “ The bank would then work with the potential shop owner to pay the remaining 90 per cent investment in instalments.” Brains and Hammers’ hospitality, residential, commercial, and infrastructural portfolio covers thousands of acres of land in urban, suburban, and satellite communities in Abuja, Kano, and Lagos in Nigeria. The company said it is backed up by over a decade’s worth of insight and expertise, noting that the company has become a partner of choice for affordable, and luxury homes by government agencies, the private sector, and Nigerians in general.