First City Monument Bank (FCMB) has restated its commitment to providing the best service delivery and value-added offerings that would consistently enhance the experience of its teeming customers at every touch point. The bank further assured that it would continue to leverage on its solid business models, highly professional staff, innovation, bespoke solutions and technology to turn the aspirations of customers to life changing opportunities. FCMB gave the assurance in a statement to commemorate this year’s international Customer Service Week, holding from October 5 to 9, 2020, under the theme, “Dream Team.” The theme essentially highlights the importance of teamwork in providing outstanding service to all customers at this challenging period. Moreover, it serves as a tribute to teams who work together to provide excellent and magical service to customers, most especially those that have embraced new work arrangements, passionate about what they do, strive for excellence, adapt to change and value teamwork despite the menace of the COVID-19 pandemic. In the statement, FCMB announced several activities to make this year’s Customer Service Week memorable and impactful, as the event offers another opportunity to further connect, engage and appreciate customers for their unbridled loyalty and patronage in the last 38 years that the lender has been in existence. “The activities include, a customer appreciation drive whereby customers who buy airtime worth N500 and above via the bank’s *329# USSD channel get a 10 per cent bonus add-on all through the week; a virtual question and answer session between customers and the Divisional Head, Service Management and Technology. “This will afford customers an opportunity to get first hand responses and clarifications on matters relating to their business relationship with the bank. In addition, cakes will be delivered to children who operate kiddies account with FCMB and whose birthdays fall within the customer service week. “Employees of the bank are also not left out of the customer service week celebration. A virtual party will hold on Friday, October 9, during which some employees will be recognised and celebrated for their achievements and overall championing of FCMB’s core values of Execution, Professionalism, Innovation and Customer-focus (EPIC),” it added. Commenting on the 2020 edition of the Customer Service Week, the Divisional Head, Service Management & Technology of FCMB, Mr. Oluwakayode Adigun, said the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has revolutionised the way organisations and their employees engage with customers. According to him: “This year’s event resonates deeply with us, because we pride ourselves as an institution that is made up of world class professionals driven by a culture of excellence. In addition, we consistently go the extra mile to develop and offer solutions that align with the lifestyle and aspirations of the various segments of the population we serve. For all of these, we are again using the opportunity of the customer service week to express our appreciation to our stakeholders.”