Mary Nnah As this year’s edition of “Arise Walk for Life” holds tomorrow, Saturday October 17,
organisers of the annual event have assured Nigerians, especially women, of hope despite the present economic setbacks while encouraging people to rise above
the setbacks and disappointments of the current times, to push forward and achieve their dreams. Speaking during a press briefing in Lagos to announce the forthcoming event, Founder, Arise Women and the Arise Women Mobile Clinics, Dr. (Mrs.) Siju Iluyomade said the Arise Walk for Life 2020 will commence by 7:00 in over 50 clusters across Nigeria, London, the United States of America, Canada, and various isolation centres. She said each cluster will have a minimum of 25 persons including celebrities, influencers and various champions. Amongst those who have signed on to participate in the walk are Kaffy, DJ Cuppy, Bimbo Akintola, Nathaniel Bassey, Daniel Amokachi, DJ Xclusive, and Peter Rufai. The theme for this year’s Arise Walk for Life, which is, “Staying Alive”, Iluyomade said is timely as many people die daily of common health issues due to lack of physical exercise and regular health checks. She said: “It is against this backdrop that we shall again embark on our annual walk for life this year and use the walk to inspire hope in many whilst encouraging participants and survivors alike to Stay Alive despite the battle against COVID-19 and all that the pandemic has brought with it.” The Arise Walk for Life will precede the annual Arise Conference, which is scheduled for Saturday, October 31, 2020. The conference promises to be a confluence of inspiration and hope as it will be graced by serving and former First Ladies, Wives of Federal and State Legislators, Captains of industries, international guests, and technocrats who will share from their wealth of empirical wisdom. Over the years, 3.5 million women have benefitted from training through the Arise Women’s Conference, while 46,030 men and women have benefitted from the Arise Walk for Life. The focus and essence of the conference are encapsulated in its motto “Arise for a Woman Today”, such that women of influence can take the message of hope to the
grassroots. The theme for this year’s Arise Walk for Life is Staying Alive, is encouraging people to rise above the setbacks and disappointments of the current times, to push forward and achieve their dreams. “Staying alive is imperative to achieving one’s dreams, something only possible when particular attention is paid to health”, Iluyomade noted. Speaking further, the Arise Women founder said, “Courage is not the absence of fear. The brave woman is not she who does feel afraid, but she who conquers that fear. “COVID-19 has not only brought disappointments and obstacles, but it has also created a wave of fear; fear of the future and fear of the unknown. It is therefore a must that we all rise above this debilitating fear and push for our goals at this time.” Arise Women is a faith-based organisation which is committed to accelerating nation building through the empowerment of women in society. Towards this end, ARISE has been able to train many women in various skills, courtesy the skills acquisition training.