By Segun Awofadeji The National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu, and the Gombe State Governor, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, have congratulated his Ondo State governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, on his victory in the October 10 governorship election in the state. In his congratulatory message, Tinubu said Akeredolu’s victory in a peaceful, free, and fair process is a testament to Akeredolu’s sterling first-term performance and an affirmation of the confidence reposed in him by the people of Ondo. Tinubu noted that in his first term, Akeredolu erected important structures, embarked upon road infrastructure and focused on projects like the Ore Industrial Hub in a bid to create empowerment and employment for the people. “It is now incumbent on him to repay the people’s faith by building on the achievements of his first term and bringing further tangible improvement to the lives of the people of his state. “I also congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari, our party’s governors and all the members of the APC in Ondo State and beyond. I wish, also, to congratulate Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Chairman of our party’s National Campaign Council for the Ondo election, for his excellent work in support of his brother-governor’s campaign.” Tinubu added that Akeredolu’s re-election has demonstrated what a united and cooperative APC can do when working together to advance our party’s progressive agenda. “The reconciliation we spearheaded ensured we had a united APC, which worked towards achieving victory in the election. I would be remiss if I fail to thank Baba Ali Olanusi and other members of the now defunct Unity Forum for their commitment to the party and for so firmly believing in what we stand for. I also commend all the governorship aspirants who came to endorse Governor Akeredolu for a second term including Chief Olusola Oke, Mr. Isaac Kekemeke, Dr. Segun Abraham, Chief Ifeoluwa Oyedele, Chief Olubukola Adetula, Jimi Odimayo, Ambassador Olusola Iji, Mr. Olaide Owolabi Adelami, Mrs. Jumoke Anifowose and Mr. Nat Adojutelegan. I elected to mention them by name for they deserve our accolades and even more. The former Lagos State governor urged Akeredolu to be magnanimous in victory and extend his hand of fellowship to those who contested against him. On his part, the Gombe State Governor, Yahaya has also congratulated his Ondo State counterpart, Akeredolu, on his victory in the October 10 governorship election in the state. In a statement issued yesterday by the Senior Special Assistant (Media and Publicity) to the governor, Mr. Ismaila Uba Misilli, the governor described the landslide victory of Akeredolu and the APC as a validation of people’s trust and confidence in the party and the governor’s leadership. Yahaya who is also a member of the APC Campaign Council for Ondo State Governorship Election, expressed confidence that Akeredolu will use the second mandate to consolidate on the laudable achievements he recorded in his first term.