Stallion Empowerment Initiative (SEI), the charity arm of Stallion Group, which recently celebrated its 50 years in Nigeria, has introduced the coveted scholarship programme for the Premium Technical High School and Premium Primary Schools, both in Warri, Delta State. A statement by SEI said, “The 2020 awards were given to 21 students in an apt felicitation ceremony in front of an August gathering of students, encouraging them to set high goals for a bright future. The inaugural scholarship was given to the best performing student across their various classes for the 2019/2020 academic session.” The statement said the “three broad categories of scholarships introduced are: Sunil Vaswani Merit Scholarships with 100% full tuition fee waiver for the best student in Primary 6 to Senior Secondary 3; Principal’s Merit Scholarship with 75% tuition waiver for the second-best student; and Roy Tabet Merit Scholarship with 50% tuition scholarship for the third best student.” The Co- Founder of SEI, Ms. Sarina Vaswani said, “The Stallion Empowerment Initiative strongly believes that investments in human capital through education and skills can lead to a positive future for generations. SEI therefore supports youth to further their education into secondary schools and university. We believe our school programmes and supplies can help prepare students into adulthood. SEI supports Premium Technical High School in Warri with 1746 students and the two Premium Primary Schools with 2000 students in Warri, Nigeria. The Principal THS Mr. Joseph Sido added that the schools offer qualitative secondary school education for children in the neighboring communities. The students are imparted with technical training so that they are absorbed in industries like Premium Steel or other ancillary industry in that region. The statement said, “Statistically, it is given that the Sub-Saharan Africa region has a rough estimate of 64% illiteracy which is the highest in the world. SEI is working towards building Nigeria as a benchmark in improving the access and opportunities available for young individuals. The goal is to improve the attendance rates for schools in the region and encourage the meritorious with the right support so that they become the harbinger for development in the region. 71% of the students chosen on merit are female further attesting that SEI supports schools that provide a very conducive environment for the girl child. Female literacy continues to be an ongoing challenge in Nigeria owing to cultural and religious disparities. Stallion Empowerment Initiative (SEI) believes that these are core challenges society will continue to tackle in the future and therefore it is essential to set the precedence of gender equality in Nigeria. By creating an open environment for girls to attend schools and supporting them with educational grants and scholarships the organisation is propagating gender equality. “SEI’s key focus is to support and scale education, healthcare & driving youth empowerment programs across Nigeria. Stallion Empowerment Initiative is dedicated on road mapping a journey to a better future.”