By John Shiklam The Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, and some heads of security agencies in the state yesterday visited communities in Giwa Local Government Area of the state, where 12 people were killed by bandits last weekend. The killings took place in Kidandan and Kadai villages last Friday morning and Saturday night respectively, as several people were also said to have been injured. In Kidandan, three people were killed last Friday at about 11a.m., while in Kadai village, nine people were killed last Saturday night. Also, several houses, including vehicles and motorcycles, were burnt by the hoodlums. Aruwan had in a statement last Sunday expressed condolences to the two communities over the incidents. The District Head of Fatika, Alhaji Nuhu Umar, received the commissioner and the security heads during the visit yesterday, and later took them to the scene of the incidents. Speaking while addressing the villagers, Aruwan said he was on a visit on behalf of the state Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, to extend solidarity and also to assure them that the state government was working tirelessly with security agencies in the battle against bandits. He appealed to the villagers to cooperate and give maximum support to security agencies deployed in the area. In his remarks, the Garrison Commander, 1 Division, Nigerian Army, Brig-Gen. Olusegun Abai, charged the communities to be vigilant and active in volunteering information that would assist operatives in combating banditry. On his own, the Kaduna State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Umar Musa Muri, assured the community that the bandits were being pursued to their hideouts, adding that timely volunteering of information will give security agencies utmost advantage against the criminals. Also the state Director of Department of State Services (DSS), Mr. Idris Koya, expressed concern over the unfortunate incident, which affected some of the villagers who rushed to the scene of the gun duel between security operatives and the bandits.