By John Shiklam in Kaduna The Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) on Thursday took to the streets in Kaduna to protest the escalating security challenges facing the North.
The protesters demanded for an end to banditry, terrorism, and kidnappings in North. Many northern states, especially Borno, Yobe, Kaduna, Katsina, Zamfara and Sokoto are facing serious security challenges due to the activities of the Boko Haram insurgents and bandits who invade communities, kill and abduct people for ransom. The protesters who march peacefully from Waff Road to the Kaduna state House of Assembly Complex said “we want an immediate end to banditry, terrorism, and Kidnappings in Northern Nigeria.” They carried placards and banners with various inscriptions, some of which read: “Stop the killings in the North”, “Empower SWAT to end insecurity”, “End Boko Haram now”, End Banditry Now”, “The North is Bleeding”, “Stop Rape Now”, etc. The protesters were received by the Chief Whip of the House, Hon. Shehu Yunusa.
Addressing the Chief Whip, the coordinator of the protest, Sa’ad Bako, said the CNG was compelled to protest the unending insecurity in the north. The group lamented the recent violent attacks on innocent people in Kaduna, Katsina, Zamfara, Sokoto, Borno, Adamawa and other northern communities and other disturbances across the North.
“This sadly, has ultimately placed the current federal administration of President Muhammad Buhari and a section of the northern political, cultural and spiritual leadership on the wrong side of public opinion – and history. “The rise in the spate of banditry, kidnappings, cattle rustling and bloodshed in the north has become a major trying point for everyone but the authorities – who have remained detached from the reality,” Bako said. The group, demanded: “An immediate and comprehensive improvement of security in the nation, most especially all over Northern Nigeria.
“That the federal and state administrations address major failings in their perception of the current desperate situation and their response to the people’s demands for their rights to security. “A total overhaul of the leadership of the National Security Agencies, a review of the entire National security architecture and the National security committees in order to inject higher levels of competence, integrity and accountability in the manner they deal with the security challenges in the nation and particular the North. “The promulgation of a legislation to compel the review of the salary and general incentive packages of all men of the security services…”